---

title: Electronic equipment, system for video content, and display method
abstract: An electronic equipment device that includes a storage section storing data for creating a menu screen. A metadata acquisition section acquires metadata for displaying a menu item for operating external equipment, from the external equipment. The metadata having data for defining a type of the menu item and transition of a menu focus. A remote commander operation detection section detects operation performed on a remote commander. A menu screen generation processing section adds the menu item based on the metadata to the menu screen, for assembly; and a notification processing section notifies the external equipment of the menu item selected on the menu screen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07949230&OS=07949230&RS=07949230
owner: Sony Corporation
number: 07949230
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20060724
---
The present document contains subject matter related to Japanese Patent Application JP 2005 215395 filed in the Japanese Patent Office on Jul. 26 2005 the entire contents of which being incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to electronic equipment a system for video content and a display method and is applicable to cases where a system is constructed by connecting a monitor to various kinds of video equipment via e.g. a home network. In the present invention external equipment being the various kinds of video equipment transmits metadata for defining at least a menu type and focus transition to a system display being the monitor and the system display displays a menu screen thereon and further notifies the external equipment of what has been selected from the menu items displayed. Accordingly it is made possible to enhance the user friendliness of a graphical user interface for the external equipment compared with that for related art equipment.

In the past television receivers when having selected an external input through operation of their remote commander provide a user with video content based on a video signal and an audio signal inputted from the terminals of the selected external input in place of a video signal and an audio signal outputted by a built in tuner. Thus the television receivers can be used as monitors for video content supplied from external equipment. And in order to facilitate such selection and the like in the external equipment television receivers have been available in which a menu screen is displayed via a graphical user interface to accept operations by a user.

Furthermore some external equipment switch their function through operation with a remote commander dedicated thereto and in order to simplify the operation of the remote commander they display various menus via a graphical user interface for accepting the user s operation.

As one example of such a graphical user interface e.g. Japanese Patent Application Publication No. H05 333838 has proposed a method in which a cursor is displayed and the display of the cursor is suspended after a predetermined time has elapsed whereby to enhance e.g. the user friendliness.

By the way in a case of viewing on a television receiver video content played by a DVD recorder the user first selects an external input which corresponds to the DVD recorder using a remote commander of the television receiver and then operates to control the DVD recorder using a remote commander of the DVD recorder. Thus the user must operate both the remote commander of the television receiver and that of the DVD recorder thus facing a problem that the user friendliness is unsatisfactory. Note here that the DVD recorder is a recording playback apparatus for recording and playing video content using optical discs being DVDS.

Furthermore in this case due to switching from a graphical user interface of the television receiver to a graphical user interface of the external equipment consistency cannot be achieved in these graphical user interfaces each involving a series of operation in terms of how they work and look. The problem that the user friendliness is unsatisfactory is similarly imposed to the extent that erroneous operation may occur in some serious cases.

In some television receivers a video signal from external equipment is processed to be displayed in a slave screen. In this situation a menu screen of the external equipment may in some cases be displayed in the slave screen located on a menu screen of the television receiver by operating the remote commanders of both the television receiver and the external equipment. In such cases the display becomes extremely complicated and thus the user may have trouble about performing proper operation.

The present invention has been made in view of the above circumstances and proposes electronic equipment a system for video content and a display method all enabling enhancement of the user friendliness of a graphical user interface for external equipment compared with that for the related art equipment.

A first aspect of the present invention provides electronic equipment which includes a storage section a metadata acquisition section a remote commander a menu screen generation processing section and a notification processing section. The storage section stores data for creating a menu screen. The metadata acquisition section acquires metadata for displaying a menu item for operating external equipment from the external equipment. Herein the metadata has data for defining at least a type of the menu item and transition of a menu focus. The remote commander operation detection section detects operation performed on a remote commander. The menu screen generation processing section adds the menu item based on the metadata to the menu screen for assembly. The notification processing section notifies the external equipment of the menu item selected on the menu screen on the basis of a detection result of the remote commander operation detection section. In the electronic equipment the menu screen generation processing section makes the menu focus transit on the basis of the metadata and the detection result of the remote commander operation detection section.

A second aspect of the present invention provides a system for video content in which video equipment that outputs video data of the video content is connected to electronic equipment having a display section. The electronic equipment includes a metadata acquisition section a remote commander operation detection section a menu screen generation section and a notification section. The metadata acquisition section acquires metadata for defining at least a type of a menu item and transition of a menu focus in a menu screen for display on the display section from the video equipment. The remote commander operation detection section detects operation performed on a remote commander. The menu screen generation section generates video data used to display the menu screen by changing display of the menu item on the basis of the metadata and a detection result of the remote commander operation detection section. The notification section notifies the video equipment of selection of a menu in the menu screen on the basis of the detection result of the remote commander operation detection section. The video equipment includes a video data output section a metadata output section a notification acquisition section and a control section. The video data output section outputs the video data of the video content to the electronic equipment. The metadata output section outputs the metadata to the electronic equipment according to an instruction from the electronic equipment. The notification acquisition section acquires notification about the selection of the menu. The control section instructs output of the metadata corresponding to a menu item whose hierarchical level follows that of the menu item corresponding to the metadata according to the notification about the selection of the menu acquired by the notification acquisition section.

A third aspect of the present invention provides a method for displaying an operation menu for external equipment which includes the steps of acquiring metadata for defining at least a menu type and transition of a focus in a menu screen from the external equipment detecting operation performed on a remote commander generating video data used to display the menu screen by making the menu focus transit on the basis of the metadata and a detection result as to the operation performed on the remote commander and notifying the external equipment of selection of a menu in the menu screen on the basis of the detection result as to the operation performed on the remote commander.

According to the first aspect of the present invention the external equipment can switch its function in response to menu selection operation performed on the remote commander of the electronic equipment whereby the user can switch the operation of the external equipment without selectively operating the remote commander of the electronic equipment and the remote commander of the external equipment. Consequently the user friendliness can be enhanced. Furthermore the menu screen for the external equipment is created by the electronic equipment on the basis of metadata so that consistency in operation and look in the graphical user interface can be achieved. As a result the user friendliness can also be enhanced.

According to the second and third aspects of the present invention a system for video content and a display method can be provided by which the user friendliness of the graphical user interface for the external equipment can be enhanced compared with that for the conventional equipment.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail by referring to the drawings as appropriate.

Here the external equipment are e.g. a tuner for terrestrial digital broadcasting a DVD recorder a HDD recorder that records plays back video content by a hard disk apparatus a network server that acquires and holds therein various video content by connection to a network and the like. They are connected to the system display via e.g. a home network and output video data DV and audio data DA of the video content to the system display by operating a remote commander remote control of the system display . Note that the connection of the system display and external equipment may be implemented not only via the home network but also via various interfaces. Furthermore the video data DV and audio data DA may also be transmitted as an analog signal.

Thus as shown in each of the external equipment is provided with a content section for outputting the video data DV and audio data DA of the video content and an audio video output section A V output for outputting to the home network the video data DV and audio data DA from the content section .

Furthermore to be compatible in configuration with these equipment the system display includes an audio video input section A V input for inputting the video data DV and audio data DA transmitted thereto from the home network. It also includes an audio signal processing section for processing the audio data DA inputted from the audio video input section to drive speakers . Furthermore the system display includes a liquid crystal display panel being a display section for displaying videos based on the video data DV. It further includes an image processing section for processing the video data DV inputted from the audio video input section to output image data a video random access memory VRAM for mapping out and holding therein the image data outputted from the image processing section an addition circuit for outputting the image data mapped out in the VRAM and a panel driver for driving the liquid crystal display panel with the image data outputted from the addition circuit .

Furthermore each of the external equipment each exchanges with the system display various data related to display of menu screens various operation using the remote commander and the like in the system display . Here the various data includes metadata DM control requests RE events EV. Here the metadata DM means data for defining a menu type focus transition settings and the like for display on a menu screen in the system display so as to be associated with events EV. The control request RE means data for instructing the system display to switch operation and an event EV means data for notifying any of the external equipment of operation performed on the remote commander via an event ID defined in metadata DM. Note that the metadata may additionally include bit map data and the like for forming a menu image.

To be compatible with the exchange of such various data related to various operations each of the external equipment is provided with a control section which executes a series of processing on the metadata DM control requests RE and events EV. That is the control section of these external equipment is formed of arithmetic processing means for controlling the whole operation by execution of a program recorded in a built in memory. When the external equipment is connected to a monitor a television receiver or the like having an existing configuration other than the system display the control section controls the operation of the various parts in response to operation through a dedicated remote commander or the like. Thus these external equipment display hierarchically structured menu screens on the monitor or the television receiver having an existing configuration and outputs the video data DV and audio data DA of various video content to the monitor or the television receiver having the existing configuration responsive to selection operation effected by a user on any of these screens.

Thus the control section constitutes a graphical user interface for displaying the menu screens on which the function of the equipment is switched through operation on the remote commander and hence includes a function block as a GUI generation section B for generating video data DV on menu screens being the graphical user interface. Furthermore the control section includes a function block as a request processing section A for processing user requests executed by the dedicated remote commander and further a function block for detecting operation on the dedicated remote commander and the like.

As thus expanded with these function blocks the control section when having the system display connected thereto sends metadata DM to the system display using its function block as the GUI generation section B and processes events EV from the system display and further sends control requests RE to the system display using its request processing section A.

Furthermore to be compatible with the exchange of various data related to such various operations the system display likewise includes a control section formed of arithmetic processing means for controlling the whole operation with a program recorded in a built in memory and peripheral circuitry. The control section includes various function blocks for a graphical user interface. Note that in this embodiment the programs relating to execution by the control sections of the system display and the external equipment are provided by installation in the system display and the external equipment respectively. However the programs may otherwise be provided by downloading via a network such as the Internet or via various recording media such as optical discs magnetic discs memory cards and the like.

Of the function blocks of the control section in the system display here the operation detection section is a function block for detecting operation on the remote commander together with a circuit block for receiving a remote control signal from the remote commander . An event determination section is a function block for judging whether or not the operation on the remote commander is related to any one of the system display external equipment and outputting an event EV to the corresponding equipment. Furthermore a system control section is a function block for controlling the respective function blocks of the control section . A skin generation section is a function block for generating a skin used to display a menu screen. Furthermore a GUI component library is a function block for holding and outputting the image data of various components such as menus buttons list boxes used to generate the menu screen. A GUI assembly section is a function block for creating the menu screen using components from the GUI component library and skins from the skin generation section . The thus formed control section outputs video data generated by the GUI assembly section to the panel driver through the addition circuit whereby the menu screen is displayed as superimposed on an image formed of the image data outputted from the VRAM . Thus in this embodiment in the control section a menu screen generation section is formed of the skin generation section the GUI component library and the GUI assembly section .

Here is a plan view showing the remote commander of the system display . The remote commander includes a Power key for turning on and off the system display a Menu key for instructing a main menu screen to be displayed a Back key a Cursor operation key for moving a cursor in Up Down Left Right directions an OK key a Channel select key and the like. The remote commander transmits a remote control signal based on a control code corresponding to operation effected by each of these keys via infrared or other wireless communication means.

Meanwhile the menu data D DN each include display data a menu ID transition data and event data. More specifically the display data defines a menu to be displayed by the menu data. There are assigned a menu type BUTTON a display position Origin the size Size the usable unusable setting Enabled the visible invisible setting Visible focus settings Selected and a title to be displayed on the menu Title List . Note that as later described with reference to a flag for instructing a selection situation to be saved Latent may be set in some cases. Thus in the first menu data D according to the examples shown in it is recorded that a pushbutton type menu named TITLE LIST will be displayed at a predetermined position in a predetermined size whereas in the next menu data D it is recorded that a pushbutton type menu named PROGRAM GUIDE will be similarly displayed.

The menu ID is an identifier used to identify menu data from other menu data whereby a value unique to each menu data is assigned as far as various menu data assigned to single metadata DM is concerned. Thus in the examples shown in the first menu data D has its menu ID set to 0 and the next menu data D has its menu ID set to 1.

The transition data defines a transition destination of a menu focus according to operation effected on the remote commander . In this embodiment the transition destination is defined by the menu ID of each of the menu data D DN and when the transition data is set to 1 focus transition is prohibited. Thus in the examples shown in if any of leftward MOVE Left rightward Right and upward Up keys is pressed in the remote commander with the focus being set to the menu data D at the beginning it is defined that the focus should be moved nowhere whereas if a downward Down key is pressed it is defined that the focus is switched to a menu item based on the next menu data D whose menu ID is set to 1. Furthermore since there is a description that ENTER OK 1 Back 1 Menu 1 it is defined that the focus is not moved if any of the OK key Back key and Menu key is pressed. Meanwhile in the next menu data D since there is a description that Up 0 Down 2 it is defined that the focus is switched to the menu data D and the menu data D if the Up and Down keys are pressed respectively. Note that the focus switching may be executed not only by these transition data settings but also by event data settings within metadata DM as later described with reference to .

Meanwhile the event data defines using an event ID occurrence of an event resulting from operation on the remote commander . In a case where the event ID is 1 occurrence of the event is prohibited whereas in a case of a significant value other than 1 the event ID is sent to external equipment from which metadata DM will be sent back in reply via an event EV. In this embodiment in response to this event EV the external equipment switches its operation to output metadata DM for display of the next menu screen as necessary and in order to simplify the series of processing in the external equipment and further to facilitate understanding the event ID corresponding to the event via which the next metadata DM is outputted is set to a value equal to the metadata ID of the next metadata DM. Thus in the examples of in the first menu data DM it is defined that in a case where any of the Left Right Up and Down keys is pressed and further if either the Back key or the Menu key is pressed no event occurs whereas if the OK ENTER OK key is pressed an event based on an event ID being a value occurs. Similarly in the next menu data D occurrence of an event based on an event ID being a value is defined on condition that the OK key be pressed.

Thus the metadata DM is generated by the control section of each of the external equipment such that a single menu screen is displayable. In this embodiment menu screens based on the metadata DM are formed in a hierarchical structure so as to correspond to menu screens which will be displayed on the monitor or the television receiver of a conventional configuration when each of the external equipment is connected to the monitor or the television receiver for output of its video data DV thereto. Hence metadata DM on menu screens at different hierarchical levels are associated with each other through the corresponding event IDs recorded in event data and it is accordingly set such that metadata DM corresponding to a lower level menu screen and further an event corresponding to control over the operation of the various parts can be specified through notification of an event ID based on an event EV.

Here a case is considered where the control section records for holding the metadata DM in the built in memory and connected to the monitor or the television receiver of an existing configuration to display a menu screen thereon to form a graphical user interface. The control section causes the GUI generation section B to generate the menu screen by using the metadata DM held in the memory and further causes the request processing section A to judge link data based on an event ID set in the metadata DM whereby to control the operation of the various parts and still further instructs the GUI generation section B to generate a next menu screen. Note that in this case instead of directly recording the metadata DM itself data may be used to generate and output the metadata the data being menu screen generating data for generating a menu screen for displaying the menu screen when the external equipment is connected to the monitor or the television receiver having an existing configuration.

Note that a direct event is prepared by defining each key operation using an argument for transmission whereby in a case of notified of an event EV being a direct event the external equipment judge the key operation from the event EV received and accordingly switches menu screens operations similarly to the ordinary case where they generate their graphical user interface using video data DV for output to the monitor or the like. Note that in this case the switching of menu screens is executed by the external equipment sending metadata DM corresponding to its judgment result.

In a high level event the above mentioned event ID set to each menu data of metadata DM is sent via a MENU EVENT . Furthermore an instruction for sending metadata on a later described root menu is sent via an INQUIRY ABOUT MENU . Furthermore notification about selection change is given via SCROLL in each of the directions on the menu screen page switching with PREVIOUS PAGE and NEXT PAGE or the like.

As shown in the control requests RE are outputted from the control section of each of the external equipment when the external equipment controls the operation of the system display through its operation. In the control requests RE switching of display of the graphical user interface being a menu screen switching of an input source and the like are defined whereby in this AV system it is configured such that each of the external equipment can take the initiative to switch video inputs to the system display to execute audio control timer control and the like on the basis of a control request RE.

If the system display has been turned on the process by the control section moves from step SP to step SP to notify single external equipment of an event ID for initialization which is set using a resolution or the display size of the system display as an argument via an event EV whereby to notify the external equipment of the initialization of the processing for the graphical user interface as well as of the resolution.

Then in step SP the control section notifies the external equipment of an event ID corresponding to a root menu via an event EV thereby acquiring metadata DM corresponding to the root menu screen.

The process then moves to step SP judges whether or not the initialization and acquisition of the metadata DM on the root menu have been completed for all the external equipment connected to the system display . If the judgment result is negative the process returns to step SP to instruct next external equipment to initialize and to acquire metadata DM on the root menu of that next external equipment.

Thus the control section of the system display repeats the process of steps SP and SP for as many external equipment as are connected thereto to acquire the metadata DM on the root menu from the respective external equipment.

Here the root menu means a menu used to select external equipment. As shown in which gives an example of the external equipment being a HDD recorder only for the root menu its metadata DM includes no menu data and assigns therein the management data together with a title PVR Personal Video Recorder . Thus the metadata DM on the root menu is processed to create a menu screen in which a menu item indicating the title recorded in that metadata DM is laid out according to settings in the system display .

Thus when having initialized all the external equipment and acquired the metadata DM on the root menu the process by the control section of the system display moves from step SP to step SP to display a screen listing thereon the root menu items using the acquired metadata DM and the corresponding root menu related data in the system display . Here the control section causes the skin generation section to generate a skin set to the system display causes the GUI component library to select components and causes the GUI assembly section to create each menu item thereby displaying the menu screen using these menu items and skins. In this case as to the metadata DM on the root menu as mentioned above with reference to due to none of the menu type menu display position size and the like being recorded the control section of the system display generates each of the menu items by a default set to the system display . Note that when the key for instructing a main menu to be displayed is pressed the control section executes steps SP SP by skipping the initialization processing thereby to acquire the metadata DM on the root menu from each of the external equipment after which it executes step SP.

Now is a plan view showing a menu screen of the system display in a case where none of the external equipment is connected and is a plan view showing a menu screen in the system display in a case where the tuner and the like are connected. Note that in this embodiment a focused menu item is displayed at a higher luminance than other menu items. However in the following drawings this focus setting is shown by a box. The focus may otherwise be displayed by e.g. adding borders.

Thus after displaying the root menu the control section switches in the following step SP the focus to one of its menu items in response to operation through the remote commander and accepts selection of equipment by the OK key having been pressed. Here if the equipment selected by this user is the system display the control section controls the operation of the GUI component library and the like using data which are similar to metadata used to display menu screens and held in the memory not shown thereby to sequentially display e.g. menu screens on which to make various settings to the system display . Furthermore the control section detects operation effected by the remote commander on these menu screens displayed to control the operation of the various parts of the system display itself.

On the other hand if the equipment selected by this user is one of the external equipment the control section instructs the selected external equipment to send top menu related metadata DM. Note that in this case the control section notifies the corresponding equipment of an event EV via a value being an event ID specifying the top menu thereby acquiring the metadata DM on the top menu.

Thus the external equipment having been notified of this event EV causes its control section in step SP to interpret the event ID set in the event EV received to send the corresponding metadata DM and also instructs the system display to switch inputs via a control request RE. According to the instruction received the control section of the system display switches its input setting in the audio video input section to the corresponding external equipment. Note that in this case as shown in by expanding the function of metadata DM corresponding to display of menus the metadata DM instead of a control request RE may be transmitted to instruct the system display to switch the input setting in the system display . Still alternatively the input switching may be made directly by the system display without involving the external equipment. Thus if the user selects the external equipment being a HDD recorder its control section notifies the system display of the top menu related metadata DM mentioned above with reference to .

In the following step SP the control section of the system display displays the top menu according to the metadata DM acquired through the notification of this event EV. Here the metadata DM corresponding to the top menu mentioned above with reference to assigns its menu data D D to display menu buttons indicating titles TITLE LIST PROGRAM GUIDE SCHEDULE LIST DUBBING and SETTING respectively. Thus in this case as shown in for comparison with the control section of the system display displays the top menu listing the buttons to which these titles are set according to the display position size visible invisible and other settings set in the metadata DM.

Successively the control section of the system display moves to step SP to receive operation from the remote commander here and then in step SP judges whether or not this operation corresponds to what is displayed inside the menu screen via a function block of the event control section . Here the control section searches for transition data as to the menu data corresponding to the currently focused menu item through which to detect the menu ID corresponding to a key pressed on the remote commander . Furthermore the control section judges whether or not the detected menu ID is set to a significant value i.e. a value other than 1.

When the judgment result is affirmative the control section moves from step SP to step SP to search for a menu ID set to each of the menu data in the metadata DM corresponding to this menu screen via the menu ID detected through the transition data thereby detecting a focus transition destination. The control section changes the focus according to the detection result and the process returns to step SP.

Thus when the Down key has been pressed several times the control section of the system display switches the focus to lower level menus see accordingly.

Furthermore in step SP the control section searches for event data corresponding to the currently focused menu item through which to detect an event ID corresponding to a key pressed on the remote commander . Furthermore the control section judges whether or not the detected event ID is set to a significant value i.e. to a value other than 1.

Also in this case the process by the control section moves from step SP to step SP to switch display according to what is recorded in the metadata DM after which it returns to step SP. Note that such processing includes switching of the focus to a submenu as later described with reference to .

Meanwhile if the menu ID and the event ID detected by the transition data and the event data are not set to significant values respectively the process returns to step SP from step SP neglecting the control on the remote commander .

On the other hand if the event ID set to a significant value has been detected through the searching for the event data the process by the control section moves from step SP to step SP to notify the external equipment corresponding to the menu currently displayed of the detected event ID. Thus in the following step SP the control section of the corresponding external equipment prepares the metadata corresponding to a next menu screen and thereafter the control section of the system display returning to step SP acquires the metadata DM prepared. Thus as shown in e.g. when the OK key has been pressed in the remote commander with the focus set on the SETTING menu button the control section of the system display notifies the corresponding external equipment of an event ID being a value . Then the external equipment interprets the event ID set in this event EV and notifies the system display of the metadata DM shown in .

Here in this metadata DM a metadata ID being a value is assigned to its management data DM and menu IDs being through are respectively set in sequence whereby menu buttons named BASIC SETTING SCREEN SETTING FEATURES OPTIONS and SIMPLE SETTING are indicated in the menu data D D respectively with these menu data D D described as grouped with a tag to be a first group. In the menu data D D as the first group transition data is set such that no focus transition occurs between these menus. Furthermore SELECTED is set to indicate a state in which only the menu data D at the beginning has been selected. Furthermore in the event data of these menu data D D event IDs being significant values are set so as to correspond to operation through the OK key the Back key as well as up down operation effectable on the menu buttons displayed. Note that in order to simplify processing in the external equipment and further to facilitate understanding the event IDs corresponding to the up down operation in this event data are set to the same values as the menu IDS to which the focus will be switched by these key operation. Thus in the first menu data D registered is an event ID that is set to the same value as the menu ID of the next menu data D being the focus transition destination corresponding to Down key operation. Similarly the event ID corresponding to operation with the Back key is set to the metadata ID value assigned to the last menu screen whereas the ID corresponding to a focus transition destination resulting from operation with the OK key is set to a menu ID value for the corresponding submenu.

In this metadata DM menu data D D are similarly grouped using the same tag and thus they are described as a second group. Here the menu data D D are menu data corresponding to submenu items to be displayed when the menu data D of this metadata DM is selected and menu IDS being values are set thereto respectively. Thus there are set display of menu buttons named TERRESTRIAL SETTING BS SETTING AREA NUMBER SETTING GUIDE CHANNEL SETTING PROGRAM GUIDE SETTING and TIME SETTING respectively. Furthermore in these menu data D D transition data is set such that the focus switches so as to correspond to operation with the Up Down keys and the menu ID of the menu data D is set so as to correspond to operation with the Back key and further no selection is made by default.

Thus the control section of the system display displays in this case as shown in a menu corresponding to this metadata DM with the focus set on BASIC SETTING corresponding to the menu data D among the menu buttons named BASIC SETTING SCREEN SETTING AUDIO SETTING FEATURES OPTIONS and SIMPLE SETTING displayed. Furthermore under this state in response to operation with the OK key the control section switches the focus to TERRESTRIAL SETTING based on the menu data D being a first one of the submenu items belonging to the menu item BASIC SETTING and further switches the focus sequentially to the other submenu items in response to operation with the Up Down keys .

Meanwhile when the Down key has been pressed the control section in this case notifies the external equipment of an event EV based on an event ID recorded in the menu data D to acquire the metadata DM based on this event ID. Here as shown in taking as an example metadata DM acquired via the event ID corresponding to menu data D in the metadata DM of in the metadata DM acquired through the operation with the Down key in this way menu data D D as a first group and menu data D D as a second group are assigned similarly to the case of the metadata DM corresponding to the event ID of the menu data D at the beginning. Here these menu data D D are set to the same settings except that SELECTED is set selectively to each of the menu data D D so as to correspond to the focus transition destination.

Thus the system display notifies the corresponding external equipment of an event in response to Up Down key operation and acquires the corresponding metadata DM whereby to switch the focus from one menu item to another corresponding to the menu data D D and further display a submenu in response to such focus switching.

In this case the control section of the system display sets the focus on the FEATURES menu button corresponding to the menu data D as shown in for comparison with to display a submenu based on the menu data in the second group corresponding to the FEATURES menu button. Furthermore under this state by operation with the OK key the control section switches the focus to the first submenu item as shown in . Furthermore if the OK key has been pressed with the focus set to the first submenu item in this way the system display notifies the external equipment of an event EV via an event ID of the event data corresponding to the currently focused submenu item.

Furthermore in this metadata DM the menu data D D are set such that menu commands named NO MARKING EVERY 6 MINUTES EVERY 15 MINUTES are displayed between which to switch the focus in response to operation with any of the Up Down keys. Furthermore event data is recorded so as to correspond to the OK and the Back keys respectively. Thus in this case when the OK key has been pressed the control section of the system display notifies the external equipment of an event EV based on an event ID set to the event data and the control section of the external equipment having been notified of this event ID switches its operation to the instructed operation mode. Thus as shown in when the EVERY 6 MINUTES command has been selected from the submenu by the OK key having been pressed the control section of the system display notifies the external equipment of an event EV based on an event ID being a value and thus the control section of the external equipment in turn sets its entire operation such that chapters are set every 6 minutes after starting a recording. Furthermore as shown in when the EVERY 15 MINUTES command has been selected by the OK key having been pressed the control section of the external equipment sets in response to an event EV containing an event ID being a value sent thereto from the system display the entire operation of the equipment such that chapters are set every 15 minutes after starting a recording.

Furthermore the control section of the external equipment after having set its operation in this way newly sends metadata DM therein reflecting this operation setting to the system display . In response thereto because the menu display is a pop up menu if an event EV is notified by the operation of the OK key the control section of the system display stop displaying the pop up menu. Then when having received metadata DM from the external equipment as a reply to this event EV the control section displays a menu screen based on the metadata DM acquired from the external equipment .

Here each are a representation of the metadata DM sent from the external equipment in response to the notification of the event EV when the submenu command for setting chapters every 15 minutes has been selected by the OK key having been pressed. For comparison with in this case part of the title in the menu data D is changed to EVERY 15 MINUTES whereby as shown in for comparison with the command in the AUTOMATIC CHAPTER MARK submenu is changed to the EVERY 15 MINUTES for display. Thus in this case when the Back key is pressed repeatedly as shown in for comparison with the focus is switched to higher level menu items to go back as far as to the original menu screen step by step. Note that in this case the focus switching may also be made to return to the initial root menu.

In this embodiment focus transition and event notification take place exclusively from each other with respect to user operation. However they may also coincide. For example simultaneously with changing the focus between menu items on the system display side an event may be sent to the equipment side whereby the system display side may predict user operation and set the predicted user operation on standby for example. Also the equipment side may not only send new metadata to the system display side in response to the event but may also start operation or processing on its own initiative. For example the equipment side may start or stop playing a DVD according to the event.

In this embodiment a plurality of types of image data for generating menus of different designs are available in the skin generation section and GUI component library . The control section displays the SETTING menu through user selection of the MAIN UNIT menu item described above with reference to and further displays a submenu for accepting selection of any of these menu generating image data through user selection of DESIGN from among items listed in the SETTING menu. Then the user selects one of the commands in the submenu to switch the above mentioned image data used to generate a menu screen.

Thus the control section changes the menu configuration on the menu screen as shown in for comparison with and further switches display of the menu whose selection has been prohibited to display a menu screen customized by the user according to his her taste.

In the above configuration in this AV system if power is turned on in the system display or if the Menu button on the remote commander of the system display is pressed the control section of the system display instructs initialization of the external equipment connected thereto in sequence after which the external equipment notify the system display of metadata DM on the root menu. On the basis of this metadata DM and the corresponding data in the system display the root menu screen from which to select the external equipment and the system display is displayed on the system display . Furthermore if the system display has been selected by using its remote commander a menu screen belonging to the system display itself is displayed accepting selection operation by the user.

If any of the external equipment has been selected on the root menu the control section of the system display in turn notifies the selected one of the external equipment of an event EV. Having received this event EV the selected one of the external equipment notifies the system display of metadata DM on its top menu. In this AV system this metadata DM includes data for defining a menu type focus transition data and the like and on the basis of this metadata DM received the system display creates the top menu for display . Furthermore with respect to operation through the remote commander the focus is switched between the top menu items according to the transition data TRANSITION defined in this metadata DM and when the OK key has been pressed the system display notifies the selected one of the external equipment of that operation effected through the remote commander via an event ID recorded in this metadata DM.

Furthermore in response to this notification the selected one of the external equipment notifies the system display of metadata DM on lower level menu items than the top menu and on the basis of this metadata DM the system display displays the lower level menu items accepting the selection operation by the user.

Thus in this embodiment external equipment transmits metadata defining therein at least a menu type and menu focus transition to the system display whereby the system display displays a menu screen and further notifies the external equipment of what has been selected from the menu items displayed. As a result of this configuration any of the external equipment can be operated by only operating the remote commander of the system display . Thus the operation of the external equipment can be switched without selectively using the remote commander of the system display and the remote commander of the external equipment . This can enhance the user friendliness. Furthermore any menu screen belonging to the external equipment can be created by the system display on the basis of metadata DM whereby consistency in terms of operation and look in the graphical user interface can be achieved. This can also enhance the user friendliness.

Thus in this embodiment by applying the embodiment to the AV system for providing video content the user friendliness of the AV system can be enhanced. Specifically in this AV system it is configured such that the system display selectively inputs via its audio video input section video data and audio data outputted from a plurality of external equipment for display whereby a menu based on metadata DM is displayed to switch the input data selected by the audio video input section . Furthermore the system display notifies the external equipment of the selection of a menu item made and thus in the system in which the plurality of external equipment are connected thereto the plurality of external equipment can be operated via the remote commander of the system display whereby its user friendliness can be enhanced. Furthermore the plurality of external equipment can share consistency in the operability and design of their graphical user interface. Still furthermore even in expanding the AV system by connecting new external equipment thereto such new external equipment can also be operated by the remote commander of the system display whereby consistency in the operability and design of the graphical user interface can be ensured to ensure a higher expandability.

Thus in the system display the skin generation section the GUI component library and the GUI assembly section all being the function blocks of the control section create a menu screen by selectively using menu generating image data on the basis of metadata whereby menus for operating these external equipment can be displayed through a consistent design according to the menu generating image data.

Furthermore a plurality of types of data are available as the menu generating image data and image data for generating a menu can be switched according to user settings whereby the user can customize menus so as to be consistent in design and can operate a plurality of external equipment using such customized menus.

According to the above configuration external equipment transmits metadata for defining at least a menu type and focus transition to the system display whereby the system display displays a menu screen and further notifies the external equipment of what has been selected from the menu items displayed. As a result of this configuration the user friendliness of the graphical user interface for the external equipment can be enhanced compared with that for the prior art equipment.

Furthermore the external equipment is video equipment that outputs the video data of video content and a menu screen is displayed on a display section for displaying the video data by this video equipment. Thus by applying this configuration to a system for video content the user friendliness of the graphical user interface for the external equipment can be enhanced compared with that for the related art equipment.

Furthermore a plurality pieces of such external equipment are made connectable whereby video data outputted from these plurality pieces of external equipment are selectively displayed by selection from a menu screen. By applying this configuration to a system including a plurality of video content sources consistency in the design and operation of the graphical user interface can be shared among the plurality pieces of external equipment as the sources whereby the user friendliness can be enhanced.

Furthermore menu generating image data are selectively used to generate a menu screen on the basis of metadata whereby the graphical user interface can be provided in any design available with the image data.

Furthermore by providing a plurality of types of menu generating image data and selectively using them the user can give consistency to the design of the graphical user interface as he she desires whereby design consistency in the graphical user interface can be achieved.

Note that the case where the external equipment is connected to the system display has been described in the above mentioned embodiment. However the present invention is not limited to this case but may also be applicable extensively to e.g. cases where external equipment is connected to electronic equipment of an incorporated type which is compatible with the system display.

Furthermore the case where the system display gathers metadata to create a menu screen has been described in the above mentioned embodiment. However the present invention is not limited thereto. The function of creating a menu screen using metadata may be provided in any of the external equipment and further in third equipment not used to output display video content such as a server.

Furthermore the case where the external equipment is notified of operation performed on the remote commander via an event ID has been described in the above mentioned embodiment. However the present invention is not limited thereto. The external equipment can send operation effected on the remote commander in various ways e.g. via an identifier code set to each operation key.

Furthermore the case where metadata and events control requests are sent in predetermined formats has been described in the above mentioned embodiment. However the present invention is not limited thereto. These data may be transmitted in various formats.

Furthermore the case where the system display notifies the external equipment of user selection operation to acquire the corresponding metadata has been described in the above mentioned embodiment. However the present invention is not limited thereto. It may alternatively be configured such that the external equipment notifies the system display of a group of metadata and the system displays caches such group of metadata for processing.

Furthermore the case where the present invention is applied to an AV system of a home network type has been described in the above mentioned embodiment. However the present invention is not limited thereto but may be applicable extensively to various systems such as audio systems for providing music content.

The present invention relates to electronic equipment a system for video content and a display method and is applicable to cases where a system is constructed by connecting a monitor to various video equipment via e.g. a home network.

According to the present invention the user friendliness of the graphical user interface for the external equipment can be enhanced compared with that for the conventional equipment.

It should be understood by those skilled in the art that various modifications combinations sub combinations and alterations may occur depending on design requirements and other factors insofar as they are within the scope of the appended claims or the equivalents thereof.

