---

title: Method for coordinating the sharing of contact information between a directory terminal and a portable communication device, as well as providing enhanced user interface context features
abstract: A method for coordinating the sharing of contacts between a directory terminal () and a portable communication device () is implemented in one embodiment when the directory terminal receives from the portable device a request to conduct a directory sharing session and a communication device identifier. The directory terminal retrieves screen interface information associated with the identifier and renders a user interface on a display screen () of the directory terminal based on the retrieved information. The directory terminal receives a first set of contact records from the portable communication device, wherein each contact record includes a contact name and at least one contact entry. The directory terminal searches a second set of contact records to find contact records containing contact names included in contact records of the first set. Contact entries for common contact records are conveyed to the portable communication device for automatic association with the first set.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08417225&OS=08417225&RS=08417225
owner: Motorola Mobility LLC
number: 08417225
owner_city: Libertyville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061219
---
The present invention relates generally to the field of wireless communication systems and more particularly to a method for coordinating the sharing of contact information between a directory terminal and a portable communication device and providing enhanced user interface context features.

Many corporate facilities shopping plazas or other public buildings contain a directory terminal or kiosk in a common area open to the public to provide contact information to visitors concerning the businesses residents or employees occupying that location. For example a directory kiosk can be located in the lobby of an office building and may include a listing of all occupants and employees of that building along with a corresponding phone number for each person or business listed. When a visitor enters the building the visitor generally consults the kiosk directory to find information for the occupant he or she is there to see. The visitor can then contact the occupant by manually dialing the number found in the directory.

However each kiosk typically displays a unique user interface. Because the visitor is usually unfamiliar with the particular user interface the menu listings may be quite confusing when the visitor is attempting to find information. This problem is further compounded when the visitor needs to find contact information quickly and can result in unnecessary frustration.

Additionally the visitor may already have certain contact information for the particular occupant stored in the mobile phone. However if there is any additional information listed in the directory that the mobile phone did not previously contain the visitor must enter the new information into his or her phone manually in order to update the occupant s contact information.

Therefore a need exists for among other things a method for coordinating the sharing of contact information between a directory terminal and a portable communication device and providing enhanced user interface or display screen context features that overcomes the shortcomings of the prior art.

Generally the present invention encompasses a method for coordinating the sharing of one or more contacts between a directory terminal and a portable communication device as well as optionally providing enhanced user interface or display screen context features for a user of the directory terminal and or the portable communication device. In one embodiment the directory terminal receives a request from the portable communication device e.g. over a short range wireless link to conduct a directory sharing session. The request includes a communication device identifier which is at least associated with a manufacturer of the portable communication device and more preferably is further associated with a model number of the portable communication device. Responsive to the request the directory sharing session is established and the directory terminal retrieves e.g. from a remote database or server display screen interface information associated with the communication device identifier. Based on the retrieved display screen interface information the display terminal renders a user interface on the display screen of the directory terminal wherein the user interface has substantially the same look and feel or context of the user interface for the portable communication device.

In another embodiment the directory terminal receives a first set of contact records stored in a memory of the portable communication device. Each contact record is associated with a corresponding one of the plurality of contacts and each contact record includes a contact name and at least one contact entry. The first set of contact records is displayed on the display screen of the directory terminal for viewing by the user of the directory terminal. Each contact entry may be a telephone number an email address an instant messaging address a pager number a group identifier a universal fleet member identifier UFMI or a dispatch number.

In another embodiment the first set of contact records is combined with a second set of contacts records stored in a memory accessible by the directory terminal to form a combined set of contact records which is displayed on the display screen of the directory terminal. A selection of a displayed contact entry is received from a user of the directory terminal. The directory terminal then initiates a communication with the contact corresponding to the selected contact entry using the selected contact entry. Additionally the directory terminal may further capture data identifying the user of the directory terminal and forward the captured data to the contact corresponding to the selected contact entry. The captured data may be a name a telephone number textual information audio information or video information e.g. a digital photograph taken by a camera embedded within or attached to the directory terminal .

In another embodiment a second set of contact records stored in a memory accessible by the directory terminal is searched to find contact records containing a contact name corresponding to a contact name contained in at least one contact record of the first set of contact records. Any contact record from the first set of contact records including a contact name for which there is no corresponding contact name included in any contact record of the second set of contact records is excluded from display.

In another embodiment a second set of contact records stored in a memory accessible by the directory terminal is searched to find contact records containing a contact name corresponding to a contact name contained in at least one contact record of the first set of contact records. The directory terminal then displays all the contact records in the second set of contact records for which contact names of the records match contact names of the first set of contact records. The contact entry for a particular record may be displayed as an icon to ensure privacy of the contact information.

In the event that the user desires to contact an individual whose contact name is listed in the contact records displayed by the directory terminal the directory terminal receives a selection of a displayed contact entry associated with the desired contact name from the user of the directory terminal who in most circumstances is also the user of the portable communication device . The directory terminal then initiates a communication with the contact corresponding to the selected contact entry in response to selection of the contact entry. The communication may be a telephone call a dispatch call a page a text message an email message an instant message or a multi media message.

In another embodiment at least one contact entry contained in the contact records of the second set of contact records may be sent to the portable communication device together with a usage control code that establishes the duration of accessibility for the sent contact entry by the portable communication device. The duration of accessibility may be an unlimited time a time limited to a duration of the present directory sharing session a predetermined length of time or a time limited to whenever the portable wireless device is in communication with the directory terminal.

In another embodiment a directory sharing session between a directory terminal and a portable communication device is established to coordinate the sharing of a plurality of contacts. In this embodiment the portable communication device conveys a communication device identifier associated therewith to a directory terminal e.g. in a directory sharing session request or otherwise . Additionally the portable communication device sends the directory terminal a first set of contact records stored in a memory of the portable communication device. Each contact record is associated with a corresponding one of the plurality of contacts and each contact record contains a contact name and at least one contact entry. The portable communication device receives at least one contact record contained in a second set of contact records stored in a memory accessible by the directory terminal. The received contact record may include a contact name corresponding to a contact name contained in a contact record of the first set of contact records. If the received contact record includes such a contact name the portable communication device in one embodiment automatically associates the contact entry in the received contact record with the contact record in the first set of contact records containing the corresponding contact name. The portable communication device then optionally stores the contact entry in the contact record of the first set of contact records containing the corresponding contact name. In other words the portable communication device may update the contact record for a particular contact based on information for the contact received from the memory accessible by the directory terminal.

The portable communication device optionally displays the received contact record on a display screen of the portable communication device. Additionally the portable communication device may further receive a usage control code associated with the received contact entry that establishes the duration of accessibility for the received contact entry. The duration of accessibility may be an unlimited time a time limited to a duration of the present directory sharing session a predetermined length of time or a time limited to whenever the portable wireless device is in communication with the directory terminal.

After the received contact record has been displayed the portable communication device receives a selection of a contact entry in the displayed record from a user of the portable communication device and in response thereto initiates a communication with the contact corresponding to the selected contact entry.

Before describing in detail exemplary embodiments that are in accordance with the present invention it should be observed that the embodiments reside primarily in combinations of apparatus components and processing steps related to implementing a method for coordinating the sharing of one or more contacts between a directory terminal and a portable communication device as well as providing enhanced user interface context features for a user of the directory terminal and or the portable communication device. Accordingly the apparatus and method components have been represented where appropriate by conventional symbols in the drawings showing only those specific details that are pertinent to understanding the embodiments of the present invention so as not to obscure the disclosure with details that will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the description herein.

In this document relational terms such as first and second top and bottom and the like are used solely to distinguish one entity or element from another entity or element without necessarily requiring or implying any physical or logical relationship or order between such entities or elements. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. The term plurality of as used in connection with any object or action means two or more of such object or action. A claim element proceeded by the article a or an does not without more constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that includes the element.

The terms wireless communication device portable communication device and mobile communication device are used interchangeably herein and are intended to broadly cover many different types of devices that can wirelessly receive signals and optionally can wirelessly transmit signals and may also operate in a wireless communication system. For example and not by way of limitation a wireless portable or mobile communication device may include any one or a combination of the following a cellular telephone a mobile phone a smart phone a two way radio a two way pager a wireless messaging device a laptop computer a personal digital assistant PDA a wireless email device a portable gaming device including a built in wireless modem and the like. The term dispatch number includes any identification sequence used to identify a wireless communication device with any push to talk services including but not limited to Voice over IP applications.

It will be appreciated that embodiments of the invention described herein may be comprised of one or more conventional processors and unique stored program instructions that control the one or more processors to implement in conjunction with certain non processor circuits some most or all of the functions for coordinating the sharing of contacts between a directory terminal and a portable communication device as described herein. The non processor circuits may include but are not limited to a radio receiver a radio transmitter signal drivers clock circuits power source circuits and user input devices. As such the functions performed by these processor and or non processor circuits may be interpreted or referred to herein as steps of a method to coordinate the sharing of contacts between a directory terminal and a portable communication device as disclosed and claimed herein. Alternatively some or all the recited functions could be implemented by a state machine that has no stored program instructions or in one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs in which each function or some combinations of certain of the functions are implemented as custom logic. Of course a combination of the two approaches could be used. Thus methods and means for these functions are described herein. Further it is expected that one of ordinary skill notwithstanding possibly significant effort and many design choices motivated by for example available time current technology and economic considerations when guided by the concepts and principles disclosed herein will be readily capable of generating such software instructions and programs and integrated circuits ICs without undue experimentation.

Many corporate facilities and publicly accessible buildings contain a directory terminal or kiosk that is located in a common area and stores individual contact information for each occupant or employee of the building or facility. The stored contact information is generally searchable based on an identification e.g. last name of the building occupant. One embodiment of the present invention enables additional features for a directory kiosk by providing a seamless exchange of contact information between the directory kiosk or terminal and a portable communication device such as a mobile phone with Bluetooth capabilities or a handheld gaming device operating over a wireless communication system e.g. a system implementing any of the IEEE 802.11 or IEEE 802.16 family of standards . By linking a visitor s portable communication device with the directory terminal the user interface of the directory terminal may be custom rendered to have a similar look and feel to that of the visitor s personal communication device. Because the user interface is already familiar to the visitor the visitor need not waste time and incur frustration trying to figure out how to operate the kiosk. Additionally in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention the portable communication device may update its contact information relating to one or more contacts for which contact records are stored in a memory accessible by the directory terminal by receiving updated contact entries from the remote memory e.g. database either indirectly through the directory terminal or directly in response to being advised by the directory terminal that one or more of the contact entries for a particular contact record stored in a memory of or connected to the portable device is missing or in error. Further enhanced identification information about a user of the directory terminal e.g. a visitor to an office building such as a picture a video segment or an audio recording may be captured by the directory terminal or a device coupled thereto and included in a communication from the directory terminal to a selected recipient e.g. an occupant of the building .

The present invention can be more readily understood with reference to in which like reference numerals designate like items. depicts an exemplary wireless communication system in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. The depicted wireless communication system includes at least one or more portable communication devices one shown and a directory terminal . The wireless communication system connects the portable communication device to other wireless communication devices and or to other networks including wide area networks such as the Internet a public switched telephone network PSTN and the like via at least one base station . The base station is operated by a site controller which connects to other networks via a gateway mobile switching controller or other conventional routing and or switching equipment. The directory terminal is preferably accessible to a local server and or a local communication device e.g. a telephone or personal computer via a local area network LAN access point . The directory terminal may also be accessible to a remote server via for example the LAN access point the gateway and the WAN . Additionally the directory terminal may access the WAN and place telephone calls through a wired land line .

The wireless communication system may comprise inter alia a mobile phone network a mobile text messaging device network a wireless local area network WLAN a pager network or the like. In one embodiment the portable communication device is configured with wireless technology that allows the device to communicate directly with the directory terminal or other wireless communication devices using the Bluetooth short range wireless transmission protocol the Infrared Data Association IrDA protocol or any other communication standards or protocols including but not limited to the IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi family of standards and or the IEEE 802.16 Wi MAX family of standards.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention the directory terminal includes a computer system with a user interface and a display screen for presenting information to a user. The display screen preferably comprises touch screen capabilities thereby incorporating the user interface and allowing a user to enter a requested operation by pressing the screen directly. Additionally or alternatively the directory terminal may include other user interface devices such as a keyboard or other input device e.g. a mouse a microphone or a touchpad not shown to facilitate user requests or inquiries. The directory terminal may also include a camera for capturing video or photographic data.

In one embodiment the directory terminal is communicatively coupled to the LAN access point via a network interface card not shown which may be wired wireless or any combination thereof. Additionally the LAN access point may provide connectivity to the local server which stores a local contacts database.

The communications standard or protocol of the wireless communication system may include any conventional protocol or multiple access technique including without limitation Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE General Packet Radio Service GPRS Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA or Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM . Additionally the wireless communication system may further utilize media messaging standards such as Short Message Service SMS Enhanced Messaging Service EMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS or any other protocols for conveying text or video messages. The wireless communication system may further facilitate push to talk or dispatch over cellular communications between capable wireless communication devices.

The wireless communication system supports any number of wireless communication devices and or wireline communication devices e.g. PCs . For example the wireless communication system of supports mobile telephones smart phones text messaging devices PDAs handheld computers pagers beepers wireless communication cards handheld game systems incorporating wireless access technology or the like. A smart phone is a mobile telephone that has additional application processing capabilities. For example a smart phone may include a combination of 1 a pocket PC handheld PC palm top PC or PDA and 2 a mobile telephone.

Referring now to an electrical block diagram of an exemplary directory terminal according to one embodiment of the present invention is shown in more detail. The depicted directory terminal includes a controller processor which processes instructions performs calculations and controls the flow of information through the directory terminal according to computer instructions stored in program memory . The controller processor in one embodiment is communicatively coupled to other components of the directory terminal via an interface bus .

The controller processor is communicatively coupled to a non volatile memory and a main memory . In one embodiment the main memory includes the program memory and a data memory . In one embodiment the program memory contains a communication director an operating system platform and glue software . The operating system platform manages resources such as the data stored in data memory schedules tasks and processes the operation of the communication director as discussed in greater detail below. The operating system platform also manages a graphical user display interface rendered according to information retained in a wireless communication device screen interface database a user input device interface that receives inputs from a keyboard a mouse not shown a touchscreen or any other user interface device and a network interface card that communicates with other devices through the LAN access point . Additionally the operating system platform further manages many other basic tasks of the directory terminal in a manner well known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

In one embodiment the glue software includes drivers protocol stacks and low level application programming interfaces APIs . The glue software provides basic functional components for use by the operating system platform and by compatible applications that run on the operating system platform for managing communication resources and processes in the directory terminal .

In one embodiment the data memory contains a contacts database and a wireless communication device screen interface database . The contacts database contains contact records for a plurality of contacts e.g. occupants of a building in which the directory terminal is located . Each contact record contains the name of a corresponding contact and at least one contact entry. Each contact entry may be a telephone number an email address an instant messaging IM address a pager number a group identifier a universal fleet member identifier UFMI or a dispatch number.

Additionally or alternatively the contacts database and the wireless communication device screen interface database or portions thereof may be contained on a removable storage media e.g. a memory stick a USB flash drive a compact disc CD a digital video disk DVD a floppy disk or any other portable data storage device which is read by a removable storage media reader functioning under the command of the controller processor . Alternatively the contacts database and the wireless communication device screen interface database may be located on the local server on a remote server accessed through the WAN or in any other memory that is accessible by the directory terminal .

In one embodiment the directory terminal also includes a Bluetooth RF module to facilitate wireless communication with other Bluetooth enabled wireless communication devices in a well known manner. Signals received by the Bluetooth RF module are decoded by the encoder decoder according to a Bluetooth protocol. Additionally data to be transmitted using the Bluetooth RF module is first encoded by the encoder decoder according to a Bluetooth profile. In an alternative embodiment the Bluetooth RF module may be replaced with any wireless transceiver that facilitates communication over a short range wireless link with a similarly equipped portable communication device . For example the Bluetooth RF module may be substituted with an IrDA module an IEEE 802.11 modem or any other short range wireless transceiver.

In the event that the directory terminal facilitates voice communications the terminal may include an audio controller an audio output device e.g. a speaker and an audio input device e.g. a microphone . In such a case audio output is controlled by the audio controller which directs audio signals to an internal speaker an external speaker not shown or other audio output device. Additionally audio signals received by the microphone are encoded into data packets according to a predetermined format by the audio controller before further processing or storage. In a further embodiment the directory terminal may be capable of displaying video in which case the directory terminal may include a video controller to process video information e.g. received from the LAN access point or stored the data memory and display the information to the display screen .

Additionally the directory terminal may optionally include a telephone cable or satellite modem for placing phone calls or accessing the WAN in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. Further the directory terminal may be alternatively configured to place telephone calls using a Voice over IP implementation through the LAN access point .

In one exemplary embodiment the communication device identifier is a unique code identifying the manufacturer and the model number of the portable communication device . For example the communication device identifier may be a serial number of the portable communication device . In an alternative embodiment the communication device identifier may identify only the manufacturer of the portable communication device or may identify the portable device manufacturer as well as a family of wireless devices that includes the portable communication device . The communication device identifier is used to allow the directory terminal to retrieve a display context or environment similar to the display environment of the portable communication device as described in more detail below.

The wireless communication device transmits and receives signals for enabling wireless communication such as for a cellular telephone in a well known manner. For example when the wireless communication device is in a receive mode the controller processor operates an RF module which couples an RF signal from the antenna to a receiver in a well known manner. The receiver receives converts and demodulates the RF signal providing a stream of data to the decoder encoder module . The decoder encoder module decodes the received data which the controller processor outputs to a user in a prescribed manner. For example audio signals are routed through an audio controller to a speaker or other audio output device. Additionally received textual or image data is presented to the user on a display screen . A receive operational sequence is normally under the control of the controller processor operating in accordance with computer instructions stored in the program memory in a well known manner.

In a transmit mode the controller processor for example responding to a user input such as a user selecting a contact from a contact list using a user interface manages the audio controller and couples electronic audio signals from an audio transducer of a microphone to the decoder encoder module where the audio signals are converted to an encoded data stream for transmission. The controller processor enables the transmitter circuit which modulates the encoded data onto an RF carrier signal couples the signal through the antenna and transmits the signal through the wireless communication system in a manner well known in the art.

The portable communication device also includes a Bluetooth RF Module or another module or modem that facilitates short range wireless communications with similarly enabled wireless devices such as the directory terminal . Signals received by the Bluetooth RF module are decoded by the encoder decoder according to a Bluetooth protocol. Additionally data to be transmitted using the Bluetooth RF module is first encoded by the encoder decoder according to a Bluetooth profile. In an alternative embodiment the Bluetooth RF module may be replaced with any wireless transceiver that facilitates communication over a short range wireless link with a similarly equipped wireless device. For example the Bluetooth RF module may be substituted with an IrDA module an IEEE 802.11 modem or any other short range wireless transceiver.

When a visitor enters the common area carrying a portable communication device having short range communication capability and the portable communication device comes within a range of the directory terminal that is necessary for short range wireless communication with the directory terminal the visitor can request that a contact or directory information sharing session be commenced between the directory terminal and the portable communication device . The request may be made either wirelessly via the portable communication device s Bluetooth RF module or by user selection of the name or other identity of the visitor s portable communication device as presented on the display screen of the directory terminal . For instance for a directory terminal enabled with Bluetooth capabilities the listing of available devices on the directory terminal s display screen may include a friendly name for each portable communication device s Bluetooth device so that a user can easily select his or her device and request further communication with the directory terminal . At step the directory terminal receives the request along with a communication device identifier for the portable communication device informing the communication director or other equivalent software module of the directory terminal as to an identity e.g. manufacturer and model number of the portable communication device .

At step the communication director retrieves screen interface information corresponding to the received communication device identifier from a wireless communication device screen interface database containing user interface configurations for a selection of different wireless devices . In the embodiment depicted in the wireless communication device screen interface database is located in the data memory of the directory terminal . Such database is populated with the user interface configurations for the selection of different wireless devices either before use of the directory terminal in accordance with the present invention or during use of the directory terminal in accordance with the present invention through automatic retrieval of the user interface configurations e.g. by the controller processor from one or more remote servers over the WAN .

At step the communication director uses the retrieved screen interface information to render a graphical or other user interface on the display screen of the directory terminal . In one embodiment the rendered user interface is substantially similar to the user interface of the portable communication device . In other words in this embodiment the rendered or displayed user interface has substantially the same look and feel of the user interface displayed on the portable communication device so that the user of the directory terminal and the portable communication device is already familiar with the way the menu selections and other displayed information are presented and is comfortable enough with the presentation to navigate throughout the interface with minimal confusion or frustration.

Next at step the communication director receives the contents of the portable communication device contacts database for temporary use by the directory terminal during the directory sharing session. The portable device s contacts database is conveyed to the directory terminal over the short range wireless e.g. Bluetooth link as part of the contacts or directory sharing session. For privacy purposes the contents of the portable communication device s contacts database should not be stored by the directory terminal without some form of privacy protection e.g. encryption . The contents of the portable communication device s contacts database are displayed to the directory terminal s display screen at step . For the remainder of the directory sharing session the user may interact with the user interface of the directory terminal in the same manner as he she would operate the portable communication device user interface. For example the user can scroll through the contacts database initiate communications search the database and perform any function that would normally be executed by the portable communication device .

Additionally or alternatively the communication director may display the contents of the directory terminal s contacts database to the display screen of the directory terminal for use during the directory sharing session. The directory terminal s contacts database may be displayed as a separate user selectable contacts list or may be merged with the contents of the contacts database of the portable communication device and displayed as one inclusive contacts list.

In a further embodiment of the present invention as illustrated in the exemplary logic flow diagram of the communication director compares the contact records of the portable communication device s contacts database with the contact records of the directory terminal s contacts database to find any contact records associated with the same contact name at step . At step for any contact having contact records in both contacts databases all corresponding contact entries are displayed to the directory terminal s display screen . The communication director may be programmed to list only contact records common to both databases . In other words the communication director may exclude from display any contact record from the first set that includes a contact name for which there is no corresponding contact name in any contact record of the second set. Alternatively the communication director may display a master contacts list containing one listing for the common contact name that includes all the corresponding contact entries from the appropriate contact records of both databases e.g. display any contact entry contained in any contact record of the second set that includes a contact name for which there is a corresponding contact name included in any contact record of the first set .

Additionally or alternatively at step all or some of the contact records contained in the contacts database of the directory terminal may be transmitted to the portable communication device along with an associated usage control code for each transmitted contact record. Alternatively the only contact entries transmitted by the directory terminal may be those entries contained in contact records stored in the directory terminal s contacts database for which there are related contact records containing the same contact names stored in the portable communication device s contacts database . For example a contact named John may have a contact record in both contacts databases but different phone numbers are stored as entries in the two records. As a result of this embodiment the new contact entry information included in the directory terminal s contacts database is transmitted to the portable communication device for storage in its contacts database .

Referring now to an exemplary logic flow diagram of steps executed by a directory terminal to use contact record entries coordinated and shared between the directory terminal and a portable communication device is illustrated in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention. After the contact records of either contacts database or any combination of any portion of both contacts databases have been displayed on the display screen of the directory terminal a user may select a desired contact entry to communicate with the corresponding contact using a variety of well known methods such as pressing the selection on a touch screen display clicking the selection using a mouse or tabbing to the desired contact entry and pressing ENTER using a keyboard. At step the communication director receives the contact entry selection from the user and at step initiates a communication with the selected contact using the selected entry. For example if the user selects a phone number for the contact the communication director initiates a phone call to the selected phone number. The communication may be a telephone call a dispatch call a page a text message an email message an instant message or a multi media message.

The communication director may also capture enhanced caller identification ID information concerning the user at step such as the user s name or phone number a textual message an audio recording using the directory terminal s microphone or the portable communication device s microphone or a still video image or a video sequence using a camera integrated into or coupled to the directory terminal . The enhanced caller ID information is then sent to the selected contact at step in association with the initiated communication. The enhanced caller ID information may be presented to the selected contact embedded within an introduction to the communication to enable the contacted party to more readily identify who is calling or visiting or may be used to automatically provide additional information to a voice mail system. For example if the visitor selects a contact that is unavailable the captured information may be included as an introduction to better identify the person leaving a message.

Next at step the portable communication device receives from the directory terminal at least one contact record that is contained in the directory terminal s contacts database . If at step the contact name in the received contact record is not included in any contact record of the portable communication device contacts database then the user may now proceed to use the new contact entry in a manner consistent with any associated usage control code at step . However if the contact name in the received contact record matches a contact name included in any contact record of the portable communication device s contacts database then all contact entries in the received contact record or at least those contact entries that are different than the contact entries in the corresponding contact record stored in the portable communication device are automatically associated with the corresponding contact record in the portable communication device s contacts database at step to thereby update the contact entries for the portable communication devices contact record. For example assume for purposes of illustration that a person named John has a contact record in both the portable communication device s contacts database and the directory terminal s contacts database . In the portable communication device s contacts database the contact entries in John s contact record include an email address e.g. john someaddress.com and a home telephone number e.g. 555 111 2222 whereas in the directory terminal s contacts database the single contact entry in John s contact record is a work telephone number e.g. 333 444 7777 . In such a case at step the portable communication device receives the contact record containing John s work telephone number from the directory terminal . Continuing the example after receiving the new contact entry to for John from the directory terminal the portable communication device at step associates the work telephone number for John with e.g. adds the work telephone number for John to John s contact record in the portable communication device s contacts database such that John s contact record in the portable communication device s contacts database now includes three contact entries namely an email address a home telephone number and a work telephone number.

At step the user of the portable communication device is allowed access to the new contact entry received from the directory terminal in a manner consistent with its associated usage control code if such a usage control code was communicated to the portable communication device in association with the transferred contact entry. For example the usage control code may indicate that the contact entry is valid for an unlimited time. In this instance the associated contact entry is stored in the portable communication device contacts database with no restrictions as part of the contact record for the associated contact name. Alternatively the usage control code may limit use of the new contact entry to the duration of the present directory sharing session only and require the portable communication device to discard or delete the new contact entry after the session is completed or interrupted. In another embodiment the usage control code may require that the contact entry expire after a predetermined length of time in which case the contact entry is stored in the portable communication device s contacts database temporarily and is then deleted therefrom after a specified length of time. In yet another embodiment the usage control code may limit use of the received contact entry to only those times in which the portable communication device is in communication with the directory terminal . In such a case the contact entry is stored in the portable communication device s contacts database as part of the contact record for the associated name but the received contact entry is only accessible to the user when the portable communication device is within wireless communication range of the directory terminal .

Additionally in accordance with yet another embodiment of the present invention the newly received contact entry may be displayed to the user of the portable communication device only as an icon in order to protect privacy interest. In this case the user of the portable communication device may select the icon to initiate a communication with the selected contact however the actual content of the contact entry is not revealed.

As described above the present invention encompasses a method for coordinating the sharing of contacts between a directory terminal and a portable communication device as well as enhancing context features of the directory terminal s user interface based on context features of the portable communication device s user interface. With this invention a user of a portable wireless communication device and a directory terminal can quickly access contact information contained in or accessible by the directory terminal by conforming the look and feel of the directory terminal s user interface to the look and feel of the portable communication device s user interface. Additionally contact information for a common contact stored in both the portable communication device and the directory terminal may be automatically updated in the portable communication device to include any new or different contact entries that are stored in the directory terminal or a database accessible by the directory terminal. Finally the directory terminal may provide enhanced caller ID information to a call recipient thereby allowing the recipient to more quickly and easily identify the caller.

In the foregoing specification the present invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that various modifications and changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described above with regard to specific embodiments of the present invention. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause or result in such benefits advantages or solutions to become more pronounced are not to be construed as a critical required or essential feature or element of any or all the claims. The invention is defined solely by the appended claims including any amendments made during the pendency of this application and all equivalents of those claims as issued.

