---

title: Cursor positioning via voice recognition
abstract: A cursor positioning system for a computer display system includes a coarse positioning subsystem and a fine positioning subsystem. The coarse positioning subsystem provides a coarse positioning signal to a cursor control and rendering subsystem of a computer display system. The coarse positioning subsystem includes a voice recognition system. The coarse positioning signal provides coarse positioning of a cursor to a region of interest (ROI) on a computer display of the computer display system. The fine positioning subsystem is operatively associated with the coarse positioning subsystem for providing a fine positioning signal to the cursor control and rendering subsystem. The fine positioning signal provides fine positioning of the cursor within the ROI on the computer display. The fine positioning subsystem is operatively associatable with a cursor control device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08139025&OS=08139025&RS=08139025
owner: Rockwell Collins, Inc.
number: 08139025
owner_city: Cedar Rapids
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060401
---
The present invention relates generally to computer display systems and more particularly to voice controlled cursor positioning for computer display systems.

The use of cursors in a multi display environment can be problematic if the cursor is either lost or a long distance from where it is desired. This can be especially true for example in an aircraft cockpit environment with several displays utilizing cursors to access or manipulate data on one of several screens. The cursor is often blocked by for example flight critical information. Furthermore because of the motion of the aircraft the cursor may bounce around. Manipulation of the cursors in aircraft is typically provided by a trackball or a joystick. It would be desirable for the user to have a means to instantly move the cursor to a region of interest.

There are numerous patents that have issued that have involved voice recognition in conjunction with cursor positioning in computer displays. These include the following 

U.S. Pat. No. 5 920 841 entitled Speech Supported Navigation of a Pointer in a Graphical User Interface discloses a method and an apparatus for speech controlled navigation of a pointer in a graphical user interface. The method and apparatus therefore provides a space of discrete position states quantization for the pointer which can be navigated only via those discrete positions by means of speech command input. The granularity of the discrete position states can be adapted to the respective application window and the position states can be represented by a system of coordinates where the speech command input is based on absolute or relative coordinates. Advantageously a copy image of the graphical user interface of operation can be provided in front of or beside the actual user interface and a proxy pointer device is displayed on the copy image. In one embodiment only the copy image comprises the discrete position states and the speech input commands are only transferred to the copy image. Navigation of the proxy pointer device within the copy is transferred and converted into commands within the actual user interface. By the method of the 841 patent an operation event affected by a manipulation of the proxy pointer affects a corresponding event at the user interface. The 841 implementation implies the use of a grid type overlay with the user moving the cursor on the grid.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 499 015 entitled Voice Interaction Method for a Computer Graphical User Interface discloses an invention that enables a computer user to select a function represented via a graphical user interface by speaking command related to the function into audio processing circuitry. A voice recognition program interprets the spoken words to determine the function that is desired for execution. The user may use the cursor to identify an element on the graphical user interface display or speak the name of that element. The computer responds to the identification of the element by displaying a menu of the voice commands associated with that element. The 015 patent is focused on the execution of commands not the positioning of a cursor.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 424 357 entitled Voice Input System and Method of Using Same discloses a voice input system that has a microphone coupled to a computing device with the computing device typically operating a computer software application. A user speaks voice commands into the microphone with the computing device operating a voice command module that interprets the voice command and causes the graphical or non graphical application to be commanded and controlled consistent with the use of a physical mouse. In one form of the invention voice commands are overlayed on normal command points of the application program. Such voice commands are stored in a separate voice command repository with an edit mode provided to create new voice command sequences and to edit existing voice command sequences. The 357 patent is focused on the execution of commands and fine positioning of the cursor.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 974 384 entitled Window Control Apparatus and Method Having Function for Controlling Windows by Means of Voice Input discloses a display unit that displays at least a window from among a plurality of windows. A window switching unit switches a currently active window between windows among the plurality of windows in accordance with a corresponding voice input the voice input comprising relationship command indicating a relationship between the currently active window and a window to be activated from the windows among the plurality of windows. The relationship command indicates a relationship concerning an arrangement of the plurality of windows the relationship comprising a relationship between the currently active window and a window to be activated from the windows among the plurality of windows. In many multi display applications including for example an aircraft cockpit environment there is no particular concept of an active window . However cursor positioning is required to be managed in an efficient manner.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 818 423 entitled Voice Controlled Cursor Movement discloses a process in which an element e.g. a location pointer in a windowed graphical user interface shown on a computer display is moved toward a target position. A user s input is recognized which identifies a subregion of the display in which the target position is located. The element is moved discontinuously to a location within the identified subregion. Then a next user s input is recognized which identifies a sub subregion of the subregion of the display in which the target position is located. The element is moved discontinuously to a location within the identified sub subregion. In another aspect an element is dragged between two locations on a computer display. User commands are accepted which indicate the two locations. Then the element is dragged between them. The user commands identify a sequence of discontinuous jumps for moving the element to the indicated location.

In many multi display environments in addition to being able to move the cursor in a coarse way to a region of interest it is desirable to provide fine positioning of the cursor and for both types of positioning to be provided in an efficient manner. This is critical for example in the aircraft cockpit environment.

In a broad aspect the present invention is a cursor positioning system for a computer display system that includes a coarse positioning subsystem and a fine positioning subsystem. The coarse positioning subsystem provides a coarse positioning signal to a cursor control and rendering subsystem of a computer display system. The coarse positioning subsystem includes a voice recognition system. The coarse positioning signal provides coarse positioning of a cursor to a region of interest ROI on a computer display of the computer display system. The fine positioning subsystem is operatively associated with the coarse positioning subsystem for providing a fine positioning signal to the cursor control and rendering subsystem. The fine positioning signal provides fine positioning of the cursor within the ROI on the computer display. The fine positioning subsystem is operatively associatable with a cursor control device.

As used herein the term coarse positioning refers to a discontinuous move to a defined position i.e. absolute move to here type positioning. The term fine positioning refers to a relative change in position from the previous position e.g. change in x and or change in y coordinate.

The cursor positioning system of the present invention by integrating the coarse positioning subsystem that uses voice recognition with the fine positioning subsystem provides an effective and efficient manner of cursor controlled movement in a multi display environment.

This is particularly advantageous in an aircraft cockpit environment where sole dependence of voice activation is certainly not desired. For example the U.S. Pat. No. 5 818 423 noted above involves the discontinuous movement of the cursor by voice recognition. If utilized in an aircraft an accidental use of a word or phrase could trigger an unintended coarse position change that could be catastrophic.

The same elements or parts throughout the figures of the drawings are designated by the same reference characters while equivalent elements bear a prime designation.

Referring now to the drawings and the characters of reference marked thereon illustrates a computer display system designated generally as . The computer display system includes a cursor positioning system of the present invention designated generally as a cursor control and rendering subsystem and displays and .

The cursor positioning system includes a coarse positioning subsystem for providing a coarse positioning signal to a cursor control and rendering subsystem of the computer display system . The coarse positioning subsystem includes a voice recognition system responsive to a voice . The coarse positioning signal provides coarse positioning of a cursor to a region of interest ROI on one of the computer displays of the computer display system . The voice recognition VR system may be for example any number of commercially available systems such as that produced by IBM Corp. trademarked ViaVoice software DRAGON software by Nuance Communications Inc. KURZWEIL VOICE software and related products by Kurzweil Applied Intelligence Inc. and SAPI Speech Application Programming Interface speech services integrated in the Microsoft Windows operating system speech recognition software. The voice recognition system may be a keyword actuated voice recognition system. It may also include a Push To Recognize P T R component.

The cursor positioning system includes a fine positioning subsystem operatively associated with the coarse positioning subsystem for providing a fine positioning signal to the cursor control and rendering subsystem . The fine positioning signal provides fine positioning of the cursor within the ROI on the respective computer display. The fine positioning subsystem is operatively associatable with a cursor control device . The cursor control device is non voice actuated and may be for example a mouse trackball joystick stylus pointing stick or light pen.

The multifunction display shown on the right side of the multifunction display may include for example the following EICAS CHECKLIST SCRATCHPAD RADIO TUNING MAP ELECTRICS FMS and WEATHER RADAR. EICAS MAP PRE TAKEOFF CHECKLIST and ELECTRICS are shown as ROI s in the example. These ROI s are selectable by voice recognition.

Voice commands may include for example the following CURSOR CAS CURSOR MAP or for example MOVE CURSOR TO CAS MOVE CURSOR TO MAP .

In the example shown in details within an ROI designated PRE TAKEOFF CHECKLIST are shown. Items within this PRE TAKEOFF CHECKLIST may be engaged via the cursor control device operatively associated with the cursor positioning system . Such items may include as shown in TRANSPONDER ON BLEED OFF AIR CONDITIONING PITOT HEAT ON AND BARO CROSS CHECK. In an aircraft the commonly used cursor control device is a trackball although there is some momentum in utilizing joysticks.

Referring now to operation of the coarse positioning subsystem is illustrated. The coarse positioning subsystem includes a command module for sending a command to the cursor control and rendering subsystem . When the user states for example Cursor Checklist the VR system of the coarse positioning subsystem receives this command and provides an output signal for example CURCHK as shown in . This signal is provided to the command module that processes the output signal from the VR system and sends a command to the cursor control and rendering subsystem . As shown the command may be for example R Display LL Quad i.e. identifications as to which display and portion of that display that the cursor should be positioned.

The command module utilizes information on the current location of items of interest to generate an appropriate position command to the cursor control and rendering subsystem . This distinguishes the present invention from for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 920 841 discussed above that relies upon pure location rather than context. With the 841 device the voice command specifies a location relative to the physical display. Thus for example a voice command such as move upper left would direct the cursor to the upper left corner of the current physical screen regardless of what is currently displayed there. With the present invention on the other hand a command is issued relative to the content of where cursor movement is desired. For example the command Move to Checklist will direct the cursor to wherever the checklist is currently displayed. If the ROI is not currently on a display the voice command requesting positioning to that ROI may cause that ROI to become visible and then position the cursor in the ROI. Alternatively the system may be configured so that a signal may be provided to the pilot indicating that the cursor is not on a display instead of automatically positioning the cursor. 

The command module may include additional systems to augment the voice recognition system . For example it may include dedicated push buttons soft buttons on a display or other sensory modules e.g. haptic eye tracking etc. to provide the command to the cursor control and rendering subsystem . Regardless of where the command is received the command module translates the command into a consistent signal that the cursor control and rendering subsystem can use to place the cursor appropriately.

Although the principles of the present invention have been discussed in particular with respect to their application to an aircraft cockpit display this invention may be used in many multi display systems such as by way of illustration and not limitation vehicles other than aircraft video production suites live stage production control rooms etc.

Other embodiments and configurations may be devised without departing from the spirit of the invention and the scope of the appended claims.

