---

title: Controlled skin formation for foamed extrudate
abstract: An extrusion apparatus is taught that employs a die adapter that is partially submerged in a heat transfer bath on a horizontal plane such that there is no air gap between the die extrusion aperture and the heat transfer bath. A porous dam is positioned between the die and the heat transfer bath. A heat insulating plate is positioned between the porous dam and the die to prevent the heat transfer medium from flowing onto the die. The heat insulating plate also prevents excessive cooling of the die tip thereby allowing the necessary precise thermal control over the extrudate skin formation to prevent melt fracture and form a low density extrudate with a smooth solid skin and inner foamed core.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07832998&OS=07832998&RS=07832998
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07832998
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061026
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention is directed to the extrusion of plastics and more specifically to a method for achieving a very smooth extrudate surface using thermoplastic syntactic foam materials.

Currently technology is being sought that produces a very low density extrudable thermoplastic foam material with application to communication cable jacket materials for use in underwater applications. A new lower density foamed jacket with a smoother surface is required in order to improve the speed and underwater depth performance of several communication systems. The smoother the surface the less drag will be exhibited while towing a cable underwater. A smoother surface will also result in improved jacket sealing and handling. Metallocene catalyzed polyolefin incorporating a thermoplastic syntactic foam material is ideally suited for producing a low density foam. Unfortunately this material exhibits a high degree of melt fracture during the extrusion process. As such a smooth extrudate surface is difficult to achieve. What is needed therefore is a method of extruding metallocene catalyzed polyolefin incorporating a thermoplastic syntactic foam material in such a way as to produce a smooth extrudate surface that does not exhibit significant melt fracture during the extrusion process.

It is a general purpose and object of the present invention to disclose a method and apparatus to control the skin formation of a foamed extrudate.

It is a further object to employ an insulating plate to shield and control cooling of the die used to extrude the foam such that a low density extrudate with a solid skin and inner foamed core is achieved.

The above objects are achieved with the present invention by using a die adapter that is partially submerged in a heat transfer bath on a horizontal plane such that there is no air gap between the die extrusion aperture and the heat transfer bath. A porous dam is positioned between the die and the heat transfer bath. A heat insulating plate is positioned between the porous dam and the die to prevent the heat transfer medium from flowing onto the die. The heat insulating plate also prevents excessive cooling of the die tip thereby allowing the necessary precise thermal control over the extrudate skin formation to prevent melt fracture and form a low density extrudate with a smooth solid skin and inner foamed core.

Referring to the apparatus by means of which the present invention may be practiced includes a gravity fed hopper into which the components of the metallocene catalyzed polyolefin incorporating a thermoplastic syntactic foam are initially added. The components are then metered into an extruder which is made up of a barrel with a single screw . The extruder also has a breaker plate and then a die at its terminal end. The barrel is heated to heat the metallocene catalyzed polyolefin as it progresses to the die . and illustrates the details of the die a diameter 10 1 L D die adapter. The die has a cylindrical extrusion channel through which the compound is forced. A hot extrudate leaves the die into a heat transfer bath . The heat transfer bath consists of a reservoir having copper heating coils and filled with water which serves as the heat transfer medium. Referring to and it is shown that the tip of the die is submerged directly into the heat transfer bath on a horizontal plane. Between the die and the heat transfer bath is a porous dam to eliminate any air gap between the tip of the die and the heat transfer bath . A thick insulating plate made of a nonporous liquid impermeable material is positioned between the porous dam and the die to support the porous dam and to prevent the heat transfer medium from flowing onto the die . Due to the insulating properties of the insulating plate excessive cooling is prevented therefore allowing precise thermal control over the formation of the extrudate with minimum melt fracture. In addition the prevention of excessive cooling results in an integral outer skin over the foam cells which significantly reduces radial water absorption under hydrostatic pressure while maintaining the mechanical integrity and flexibility of the foam cable jacket material. Cooled extrudate leaves the heat transfer bath and enters roller apparatus . The cooled extrudate passes through the roller apparatus and emerges a completed rolled extrudate.

Variables in the process such as head pressure developed is largely dependent on screw speed melt viscosity die design and the use of a breaker plate. In the preferred embodiment the shear rate and residence time in the extruder depend upon the invention using both a 24 1 and 30 1 L D extruders . In the preferred embodiment the screw has a compression ratio of 2.5 3 1. The screw is a single stage screw with approximately one third of the screw comprising the feed section one third of the screw comprising the transition and one third of the screw comprising the metering section of the screw. A screw with a Maddock mixing section and or a screw with a Pulsar mixing section can be used.

While it is apparent that the illustrative embodiments of the invention disclosed herein fulfill the objectives of the present invention it is appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art. Additionally feature s and or element s from any embodiment may be used singly or in combination with other embodiment s . Therefore it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments which would come within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

