---

title: Apparatus and methods of distributing content and receiving selected content based on user personalization information
abstract: Apparatus and methods include the distribution of a plurality of content, at least one of which is tagged with descriptive metadata. Further, the apparatus and methods include selecting content from the plurality of content based on a match between a personalized content preference descriptor stored on the device and the tagged content. Thus, the selected content represents content likely to be applicable or relevant, and/or of interest, to the user associated with the personalized content preference descriptor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08856331&OS=08856331&RS=08856331
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08856331
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061117
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 789 444 entitled Apparatus And Methods Of Distributing Content And Receiving Selected Content Based On User Personalization Information filed Apr. 4 2006 and Provisional Application No. 60 739 471 entitled Catchcasting For Multicast Networks filed Nov. 23 2005 both assigned to the assignee hereof and both hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The described aspects relate to media distribution systems and more particularly to the delivery of one or more categorized content and the receipt of selected ones of the categorized content based on user preferences.

Communication networks have been designed to deliver content to recipients. For example one type of communication network comprises a unicast system which delivers content to one recipient at a time i.e. on a one to one basis. Because of this one to one nature a user of a unicast system nay request to receive content of interest to that user only. When desiring to communicate a single piece of content to a large number of recipients however unicast systems are relatively inefficient. For example in a unicast system the delivery of identical content to many endpoints is resource intensive since each endpoint must redundantly request the same content and reserve a predetermined amount of bandwidth thereby consuming valuable network resources and limiting scalability. In contrast multicast systems are communication networks which transmit information to multiple recipients at the same time. Multicast delivery technologies address the problem of cost effective delivery of content usable by a large number of network endpoints. Despite its network utilization advantages however multicast technology presents a challenge in addressing personalized and narrow interest content delivery.

Further the desire for mobile consumption of content is increasing along with the increasing popularity and functionality of mobile communication devices.

Additionally to catch the attention of the user and provide a more efficient use of the user s time it is desirable for content to be directed to the specific interests or preferences of the device user. Current methods of targeting content to users are inefficient as these methods typically select content based on characterizations of an entire group of users receiving a multicast transmission.

Thus improved systems and method of distributing and receiving content of interest to the device user are desired.

The described aspects include apparatus and methods for distributing a plurality of content at least one of which is categorized defined and or described via metadata. Further the apparatus and methods include selecting content from the plurality of content based on a correspondence between a user characteristic such as a personalized content preference descriptor and the categorized content. For example user characteristics may include characteristics such as device location time user demographics user psychographics affinity user preferred content categories and any other data which may provide a relationship between the device user and content likely to be applicable relevant and or of interest to the device. Thus the selected content represents content likely to be applicable relevant and or of interest to the user having one or more user characteristics such as may be defined by one or more personalized content preference descriptors.

A method of receiving content comprising obtaining on a wireless device a personalized content preference descriptor based on user characteristic information on the wireless device. The method further comprising obtaining on the wireless device a predetermined content descriptor corresponding to one of a plurality of content. Also the method comprising obtaining on the wireless device a multicast transmission of the plurality of content associated with a content supplier. Further the method comprising selecting at the wireless device one from the plurality of content based on a match between at least a portion of the respective predetermined content descriptor and the personalized content preference descriptor. Additionally the method further comprises processing on the wireless device the selected content.

In a related aspect a machine readable medium comprises instructions stored thereon comprising sets of instructions corresponding to the actions of the above stated method. In a further related aspect at least one processor is configured to perform the actions of the above stated method.

In another aspect a wireless device comprises means for obtaining a personalized content preference descriptor based on user characteristic information on the wireless device. Further the wireless device comprises means for obtaining a predetermined content descriptor corresponding to one of a plurality of content. Also the wireless device comprises means for obtaining a multicast transmission of the plurality of content associated with a content supplier. Further the wireless device comprises means for selecting one from the plurality of content based on a match between at least a portion of the respective predetermined content descriptor and the personalized content preference descriptor. Additionally the wireless device comprises means for processing the selected content.

In yet another aspect a wireless device comprises a memory a communications module and a processor. Further the memory comprises a personalized content preference descriptor a predetermined content descriptor and a content selection engine. The personalized content preference descriptor is based on user characteristic information on the wireless device. The predetermined content descriptor corresponds to one of a plurality of content. The content selection engine is operable to select at least one from the plurality of content based on a match between at least a portion of the respective predetermined content descriptor and the personalized content preference descriptor. Additionally the communications module is operable to obtain a multicast transmission of the plurality of content associated with a content supplier. Further the processor is in communication with the memory and the communications module and the processor is operable to execute the content selection engine to select one from the plurality of content. Additionally the processor is operable to further process the selected content.

In a further aspect a method of distributing content comprises obtaining on a distribution system a plurality of predetermined content descriptors defined by a content supplier. The method further comprises obtaining at the distribution system a plurality of content. Also the method comprises obtaining at the distribution system an association between at least one of the plurality of predetermined content descriptors and one of the plurality of content. Additionally the method comprises multicasting from the distribution system the plurality of content and the association to a plurality of devices. In this aspect the association is operative to cause the selective processing of the one of the plurality of content on one of the devices based on a match between the associated predetermined content descriptor and a personalized content preference descriptor stored at the respective device.

In a related aspect a machine readable medium comprises instructions stored thereon comprising sets of instructions corresponding to the actions of the above stated method. In another related aspect at least one processor is configured to perform the actions of the above stated method.

In an additional aspect an apparatus for distributing content comprises a memory a multicast mechanism and a processor. The memory comprises a plurality of content a plurality of predetermined content descriptors and an association between at least one of the plurality of content and at least one of the plurality of predetermined content descriptors. In this aspect the plurality of predetermined content descriptors are defined by a content supplier. The multicast mechanism is operable to transmit the plurality of content and the association to a plurality of devices. The processor is operable to execute the multicast mechanism to initiate the transmission of the plurality of content and the association. In this aspect the association is operative to cause the selective processing of the at least one of the plurality of content on one of the devices based on a match between the associated predetermined content descriptor and a personalized content preference descriptor stored at the respective device.

The present apparatus and methods now will be described more fully with reference to the accompanying drawings. The apparatus and methods may be embodied in many different forms however and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein. Additionally throughout this description like numbers refer to like elements.

Referring to in some aspects a communication network comprises a media distribution system operable to distribute a plurality of content to a plurality of wireless devices wherein at least some of the devices are operable to selectively execute and or store selected content based on device user specific personalization information. In particular the user specific personalization information includes personalized content preference information. As such the present apparatus and methods enable a device to download multicast content including an advertisement which is more likely to be of interest to the device user when compared to content supplied according to other targeting methods.

It should be noted that although three devices are illustrated in virtually any number and or type of devices are suitable for use in the aspects described herein.

Further network comprises one or more content providers operable to provide all or some portion of the plurality of content for distribution to users in network . For example the plurality of content supplied by content providers may comprise at least one of video audio multimedia content real time content non real time content also referred to as clips scripts programs data or any other type of suitable content. The plurality of content may include one or any combination of subscribed to programming ad hoc and or on demand programming advertising or any other form of content presented during a break within and or simultaneously with other content. In some aspects content providers communicate with media distribution system via a communication link which may comprise any suitable type of wired and or wireless communication interface.

In some aspects media distribution system may comprise a transport system that operates to create and transport a multimedia content flow including one or more media services across one or more data network . For example such a transport system may include a multicast mechanism . In some aspects of multicasting each flow is a logical stream within a multiplex which is a set of flows available in a given geographical area. Further media service comprises one or some combination of the plurality of content where a media service customized for a specific retailer may be referred to as a channel. As such each flow is able to deliver the same service to a plurality of endpoints at the same time as the flow is available to any device tuning in to the proper frequency thereby avoiding scalability issues. Therefore media distribution system may be operable to transport media content in a one to one fashion.

Additionally in the described aspects media distribution system may distribute one or more predetermined content descriptors to the plurality of wireless devices . The one or more predetermined content descriptors may be stored separately from or embedded within the respective content. Further the one or more predetermined content descriptors may comprise but are not limited to one or some combination of a category a name a code an identifier and or any metadata relating to and or that can be used to describe a respective one of the plurality of content . In some aspects for example the one or more predetermined content descriptors may be customized and grouped into a set for each service and thus are associated with a respective unique service identification ID . For example in some aspects one or more content suppliers associated with each service may define each respective set of predetermined content descriptor . As used herein the term content supplier may include one or any combination of a content provider a content retailer a billing and customer service provider a network service provider a media distributor such as media distribution system and any party in or related to the chain of distribution of content to the device user. It should be noted however that in some aspects such as when dealing with a new type or theme of content the device user may define a content descriptor which may be used by the content supplier.

Correspondingly at least one of the plurality of content is associated with one or more assigned content descriptors which may be individually defined for the given content and or which may be selected from one or more predetermined content descriptors associated with a respective one or more service IDs . For instance one or more of the content suppliers associated with a respective one of the plurality of content may define or select one or more content descriptors as the respective assigned content descriptor s or a respective piece of content. Further in some aspects one or more assigned content descriptors may be associated with a respective one or more service IDs and hence with a respective service or channel.

Further respective ones of the plurality of wireless devices such as ones having a predetermined media module may be operable to obtain one or more user personalized content preferences descriptors that provide a basis for choosing content likely to be of interest to a device user from among a plurality of content receivable by the respective device. In some aspects user personalized content preference descriptors may be selected from among the received one or more predetermined content descriptors for one or more respective services . In other aspects user personalized content preference descriptors may be logically determined and or predicted and related to the received one or more predetermined content descriptors . For example user personalized content preference descriptors may be based on one or any combination of user indicated preferences user derived preferences based on user device behavior location local device time user content consumption behavior a wireless network carrier associated with the device user demographic information psychographic information or personality traits of the device user or one or more device users associated with the device user such as identified friends family and or co workers affinity information user device characteristics etc. In any case each of the one or more respective user personalized content preference descriptors may vary from device to device and from user to user depending on user preferences.

Wireless devices may further include a content selection engine operable to identify such as within a given flow respective ones of the plurality of content having one or more assigned content descriptors that correspond to and or match with the respective one or more user personalized content preference descriptors . Further one or more of the user personalized content preference descriptors may be globally applied to any incoming content and or selectively applied to a given service associated with a respective service identifier ID . In any case as a result content selection engine is operable to extract the identified matching content referred to respectively as selected content from the respective flow of one or a plurality of content . As such respective selected content may vary from device to device and from user to user depending on user preferences as reflected in the respective one or more personalized content preference descriptors .

Additionally content selection engine may be operable to initiate further processing of selected content on the respective wireless device . For example content selection engine may initiate the retention of selected content on the respective device such as in a data repository memory and or content storage mechanism . Alternately or in addition content selection engine may initiate the presentation of selected content on the respective device such as via a user interface including for example a display a speaker a haptic feedback mechanism and combinations thereof.

Therefore in various aspects the apparatus and methods of the described communication network provide for the distribution of a plurality of content with at least some content having or associated with one or more descriptors i.e. metadata describing the content. Further in some aspects the apparatus and methods may provide for the separate distribution of a plurality of predetermined content descriptors which may be potentially associated with the content. Further in various aspects the apparatus and methods of the described communication network provide for the retention and presentation of content selected by the wireless device from a multicast flow of the plurality of content based on a correspondence and or match between personalized content preference descriptors and one or more content descriptors associated with the respective content. Thus a user of a wireless device is provided with content filtered and extracted by the wireless device from a group of content likely to be of interest to the user based on predetermined user preferences.

Referring to in some aspects representative components of any of wireless devices such as wireless device are illustrated. It should be noted that although wireless devices are respectively illustrated as cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA and laptop computer a wireless device may include any type of computerized wireless device such as a two way pager a portable gaming device a portable music device any other type of portable computer and even a separate computer platform having a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless device can be a remote slave a remote sensor a diagnostic tool a data relay and any other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across a wireless network. The present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless device or computer module including a wired or wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

Wireless device may include a computer platform that can transmit data across a network such as data network and that can receive and execute routines and applications and optionally display data transmitted from any network device or other computer device connected to the network or connected to wireless device . For example computer platform may be embodied in hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof. Computer platform may include a memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk including removable memory mechanisms.

Further computer platform also may include a processing engine which may be one or more of an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a chipset a processor a logic circuit and any other data processing device. In some aspects processing engine or other processor such as an ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as media module stored in memory of wireless device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Additionally processing engine may include various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof which enable the functionality of wireless device and the operability of the wireless device on network . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with media distribution system and or other networked devices. In aspects in which the wireless device is defined as a cellular telephone for example the communications processing engine may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsytems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer layer layer main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manage Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services vocoder messaging graphics USB multimedia etc. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processing engine may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform that enable the functionality described herein. For example processing subsystems may include any subsystem components that receive data reads and data writes from API on behalf of the media module .

Further computer platform may include a communications module embodied in hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof which enables communications among the various components of wireless device as well as between wireless device and network . For example in a cellular telephone aspect communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof including transmit and receive chain components for establishing a wireless communication connection. Additionally for example communications module may include any input output port associated with the respective device.

Further in some aspects for example communication module may be operable to receive the one or more predetermined content descriptors and or and either forward them to media module or provide media module with access to them. Similarly for example communication module is operable to receive the plurality of content and the associated respective one or more assigned content descriptors if any from media distribution system and forward them or provide access to them to content selection engine . Subsequently for example communications module is operable to forward selected content respectively to other device components for further processing based on instructions from content selection engine .

Additionally wireless device may include one or more input mechanisms for generating inputs into wireless device and one or more output mechanisms for generating information for consumption by the user of the wireless device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a navigation mechanism a mouse a touch screen display a microphone in association with a voice recognition module etc. In certain aspects input mechanism may provide for user input to activate or interact with an application or module on the wireless device. Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. Further user interface may comprise one or any combination of input mechanism and or output mechanism .

Additionally computer platform may further include media module as described above. For example media module may embodied in one or more of hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof. Media module is operable to manage perform and or initiate all or at least some portion of the user personalization related or personalized content preference related input output related media content management related and media content presentation related activities discussed herein. For example media module may comprise a client application and or a client agent associated with media distribution system .

In some aspects for example media module may include user interface logic operable to generate one or more of a plurality of media menus suitable for interfacing with a device user to carry out various content management functions such as personalization selection activities channel service subscription activities execution and storage of content etc.

For example referring to in some aspects where user personalization information is collected from the device user in order to generate one or more personalized content preference descriptors user interface logic may generate a user personalization menu . Menu may be presented to the device user such as on a display type user interface and may be operable to provide the device user with the one or more predetermined content descriptors or for example which may be associated with a respective channel . As mentioned above channel comprises a given service customized for a content supplier and as such a channel may be further associated with a corresponding service ID or . For example upon first activating a given channel user interface logic may automatically or based on a user request obtain user preference selection menu from the plurality of media menus and present it to the device user. As such a user may utilize one or more input mechanisms to provide a selection indicator such as a highlight a checkmark etc. to indicate the selection of one or more predetermined content descriptors . As such in some aspects a selected one of the predetermined content descriptors may be thereby defined as or associated with a user personalized content preference descriptor . Further for example user preference selection menu may include selectable functions such as a Save virtual button to save the indicated selections and or an Options virtual button to access an alternate one of the plurality of media menus such as a help menu and or a menu to identify a number of pieces of content to save and or an amount of memory to dedicate for selected content from the respective channel. Thus in some aspects device user identification of one or more predetermined content descriptors from user personalization menu results in the generation of one or more user personalized content preference descriptors .

Alternatively in other aspects the device user may individually define one or more user personalized content preference descriptors by typing in a name a description etc. These non service provider defined content descriptors may be combined with any selected predetermined content descriptors and saved as the global and or service or channel based user personalized content preference descriptors . Further in some aspects user interface logic may include algorithms decision making routines fuzzy logic heuristic relationships neural networks etc. which may be operable to associate non service provider defined content descriptors with one or more predetermined content descriptors and store this relationship as the user personalized content preference descriptors .

In still other alternatives referring to media module may include a preference descriptor generator and or user interface logic which may include at least one of algorithms decision making routines fuzzy logic heuristic relationships neural networks etc. which may be operable to associate user characteristic information with one or more predetermined content descriptors and or . Further preference descriptor generator and or user interface logic are operable to store one or more of these relationships as one or more user personalized content preference descriptors and or . As mentioned above user characteristic information may include any information relating to the respective device user and or the respective device. For example user characteristic information may include but is not limited to one or any combination of user preferences such as a content category content type content genre etc such as global level and or at a channel service level environmental information such as device location local device time and date and affiliated wireless carrier demographics such as age gender income level psychogaphics or trait information of the device user or any number of other users related to the device user affinity based information such as a prediction as to what content the device user may like based on predetermined factors such as past usage behavior behavior of friends family co workers etc. device hardware and or software characteristics and device based user behavioral information such as what applications data and content are used consumed when and for how long etc. It should be noted that user characteristic information may include any other information which may provide an insight into content preferred by and applicable relevant and or of interest to the device user. In some aspects user characteristic information may be resident in memory of the respective wireless device while in other aspects all or some portion of user characteristic information is available from other devices such as from a content supplier related device.

Further as noted above in some aspects for one device user a respective personalized content preference descriptor may be associated with a given service ID and hence a given channel or service and is selected from a corresponding channel service specific set of one or more predetermined content descriptors . Similarly for another device user another respective personalized content preference descriptor may be associated with another different given service ID and hence another different given channel or service and may be selected from a corresponding channel service specific set of one or more content categories . For example for a mobile news channel or service see the predetermined content descriptors may include but are not limited to categories such as World news U.S. news Weather news Business news Sports news Politics news Technology news Health news and Travel news. In another example such as for a baseball related channel or service the predetermined content descriptors may include but are not limited to categories such as one category for every team a category for highlights from a respective division or league a category for all highlights etc. In yet another example for a music channel or service the predetermined content descriptors may include but are not limited to categories such as a category for a respective genre such as Rock Country Hip Hop Rhythm and Blues etc. a category corresponding to an artist name a category corresponding to an album name etc.

Additionally as discussed above media module may include content selection engine operable to extract one or more selected content from the plurality of media content within flow received by communications module . In particular content selection engine may include selection logic such as predetermined algorithms rules fuzzy logic decision making routines etc. operable to determine a match and or some level of correspondence between a respective assigned content descriptor associated with one of the plurality of content and the corresponding one or more personalized content preference descriptors associated with a respective device user. A match as used herein includes but is not limited to one or a combination of an exact match at least a matching portion a likelihood of a match and a percentage of a match where a predetermined match threshold may be utilized to determine a match. For example the match threshold may indicate a predetermined one or more personalized content descriptors or a predetermined number or percentage of personalized content descriptors which must correlate to content descriptors of the respective contents in order for the content to be selected as a match. Further in some aspects based on an identified match selection logic may initiate the storage and or presentation of selected content such as based on the content type e.g. real time or non real time which may be identified by the one or more assigned content descriptors .

Referring to for example in one non limiting aspect media module may access a database of user characteristic information . Such a database of information may include categories and subcategories which may be utilized as and or associated with content descriptors and or as personalized content descriptors . Content selection engine may consider all or any portion of user characteristic information in determining whether or not to chose the respective content as selected content .

Additionally media module may include content presentation logic operable to generate one or more of the plurality of media menus suitable for interfacing with a device user to manage media module selected content and generate the presentation and or manage the storage of the content on wireless device .

For example referring to content presentation logic may generate a personalized content list menu such as on a display type user interface that presents the device user with the one or more selected content or or . For example in some aspects personalized content list menu lists selected content associated with a respective channel while in other aspects the list may include selected content from more than one channel or from all channels. Personalized content list menu comprises a personalized list of content based on the wireless device based matching activity as described above with regard to content selection engine . For instance upon initialization of media module content presentation logic may automatically or in response to a device user input received by input mechanism obtain personalized content list menu from the plurality of media menus and present it to the device user. In some aspects for example content presentation logic is operable to locate selected content and parse predetermined information such as a content identifier ID and or assigned content descriptor and present this information to the device user. For example content ID may include but is not limited to one or some combination of a name a title a unique identifier etc. associated with the corresponding content. In some aspects it may be desirable for assigned content descriptor to comprise content ID or vice versa while in other aspects it may be desirable for assigned content descriptor and content ID to be mutually exclusive. In any case a user may utilize one or more input mechanisms to provide a selection indicator such as a highlight a checkmark etc. to indicate the selection of one or more of the listed content. Further for example content presentation logic may include selectable functions such as a Select virtual button to initialize the choice execution and presentation of the indicated selection s such as via output mechanism . Additionally the selectable functions may further include an Options virtual button to access other menus such as a help menu a content management menu for deleting content and or adjusting content related settings such as a number of content and or an amount of memory to utilize to save content a predetermined amount of time to store content etc.

Referring back to content storage associated with media module may provide long term and or short term storage for any selected content . For example long term storage may be desired for selected content that the device user desires to retain or desires to execute in the future while short term storage may include memory space associated with executing content as well as any other short term storage. Content storage may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further content storage may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk including removable memory mechanisms.

Referring to in some aspects media distribution system MDS may comprise one or any combination of any type of hardware software firmware server personal computer mini computer mainframe computer and generally any special purpose and or general purpose computing device. Further there can be separate servers or computer devices and or networks associated with MDS that work in concert to receive manipulate and provide data in usable formats to parties and or to provide a separate layer of control in the data flow between devices and networks and MDS .

MDS may comprise a computer platform comprising one or a plurality of resident and or distributed computer platforms that can receive and transmit data receive and execute software applications and generate and or display data and or content. For example computer platform may be embodied in hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof.

Computer platform may be associated with an input mechanism for generating inputs into MDS and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by a local and or remote operator of MDS . For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display voice recognition module etc. Further for example output mechanism may be a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. Additionally input mechanism may be a remote device such as a remote computer dumb terminal and or workstation which has access to MDS . In some aspects for example input mechanism and or output mechanism may be utilized by one or more operators to manage one or more of the receipt and categorization of content received from content providers the establishment maintenance and deletion of channels tiers and packages associated with one or more content retailers and or billing and customer service providers the establishment maintenance and deletion of subscription and billing information and the distribution of content through media flows.

Further computer platform may include one or more data repositories and or memories which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk including removable memory mechanisms. In several aspects for example memory includes the one or more content servers.

Further computer platform also includes a processing engine which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device for carrying out executable instructions.

Computer platform may further include a communications module embodied in one or more of hardware firmware software data executable instructions and combinations thereof that enables wired and wireless communications among the various components of MDS and between MDS and network and wireless devices . For example communications module may include a transceiver module for wireless communications with wireless devices and or network .

Further computer platform may include one or more subscription billing manager modules which operate to manage all of the media content subscription and billing functions associated with MDS . For example subscription billing manager module may be embodied in one or more of hardware processors software firmware data and or other set of executable instructions. Further in some aspects subscription billing manager module includes subscription billing management logic that provides MDS with the capability to receive store and manipulate subscription and billing information . For example subscription billing information may include subscriber device user identity address and payment related information corresponding wireless device identifier information subscriber account information package tier and channel information etc. Further subscription billing management logic may be operable to receive process and transmit subscription related information such as subscription requests the corresponding approvals or denials and the management of digital rights based on an approved subscription request for a channel tier or package of content.

Additionally computer platform may include one or more distribution manager modules which operate to manage all of the media content distribution functions associated with MDS . For example distribution manager module may be embodied in one or more of hardware processors software firmware data and or other set of executable instructions. Further in some aspects distribution manager module includes distribution management logic that provides MDS with the capability to receive store and manipulate distribution information and control the distribution of content. For example distribution information may include information and or relative associations between information such as one or a combination of flows flow regions networks content channels services tiers packages content suppliers etc. Further distribution management logic may be operable to receive and process content and content related information as well as content retailer specific information such as customization information auxiliary services auxiliary presentations channel information tier information and package information. Additionally distribution management logic may be operable to initiate the transmission of flows such as via multicast mechanism . For example multicast mechanism may comprise all or some portion of a multicast system such as a Forward Link Only FLO network including the MEDIAFLO System available from Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif.

Additionally computer platform may include one or more content channel manager modules which operate to manage operations relating to the media content received and the channel services distributed by MDS . For example content channel manager module may be embodied in one or more of hardware processors software firmware data and or other set of executable instructions. Further in some aspects content channel manager module includes content channel management logic that provides MDS with the capability to receive store and manipulate the plurality of content and the respective services and or channels as well as the associated content related information such as assigned content descriptors content IDs and the associated channel service information such as the associated content tier and package information.

In some aspects for example content channel management logic is operable to generate one or more of a plurality of content and channel service menus suitable for interfacing with a user of MDS to carry out various content and channel service management functions such as channel service definitions category definition activities and content descriptor activities etc.

For example referring to content channel management logic may generate a channel service descriptor menu such as on a display type user interface associated with input mechanism and or output mechanism which allows the user to define predetermined content descriptors or associated with a respective channel or service . For example upon activating a given channel or service content channel management logic may automatically retrieve channel service descriptor menu from the plurality of content and channel service menus and present it to the user. Alternately menu may be retrieved based on received user inputs. In any case a user may utilize one or more input mechanisms to create a list of defined descriptors . For example a user may individually define a descriptor by typing in a name a description a descriptor code which may be referenced to a database of descriptors and or selecting from a list of content descriptors obtained from a content descriptor database. Further for example channel service descriptor menu may include selectable functions such as Save virtual button to save the listed categories and or an Options virtual button to access an alternate one of the plurality of content and channel service menus such as a help menu and or a menu to enter or define a new descriptor edit or delete an existing descriptor etc. As such the list of defined descriptors can be created and or modified and saved to comprise predetermined content descriptors which can be associated with the respective channel . Thus in some aspects user interaction with channel service descriptor menu results in the generation of one or more predetermined content descriptors corresponding to a respective channel and or service .

Additionally referring to in some aspects content channel management logic is operable to allow a user to categorize and or describe a given one of the plurality of content . Content channel management logic may generate a content descriptor menu which enables the user to select from a list of available content descriptors and or personally define one or more content descriptors to associate with a given content ID as the one or more respective assigned content descriptor . For example content descriptor menu may be presented to a user of MDS on a display type user interface associated with input mechanism and or output mechanism . Additionally in some aspects content channel management logic is operable based on an identified channel and or service to populate the list of available content descriptors with the associated predetermined content descriptors or defined as discussed above.

For example upon receiving a given one of the plurality of content content channel management logic may automatically retrieve content descriptor menu from the plurality of content and channel service menus and present it to the user. Alternately menu may be retrieved based on received user inputs. In yet another alternative menu may be utilized by a content provider to associate content descriptors with a given content thereby defining assigned content descriptor prior to receipt of content by MDS . In any case a user may utilize one or more input mechanisms to provide a selection indicator such as a highlight a checkmark etc. to indicate the selection of one or more predetermined content descriptors thereby defining one or more assigned content descriptors for association with the given content .

Alternatively or in addition for example a user may individually define one or more assigned content descriptors by typing in a name a description etc. These non standard descriptors may be in combination with the selected predetermined content descriptors defined as the assigned content descriptors for a given one of the plurality of content . Further in some aspects content channel management logic may include algorithms decision making routines fuzzy logic heuristic relationships neural networks etc. which may be operable to associate non standard content descriptors with one or more predetermined content descriptors and store this relationship as the assigned content descriptor .

Further for example content descriptor menu may include selectable functions such as Save virtual button to save the selected content descriptors as assigned content descriptors and or an Options virtual button to access an alternate one of the plurality of content and channel service menus . For example selection of Options virtual button may provide access to a help menu and or a menu to retrieve information that describes what types of features content should have to be considered for a respective descriptor etc. As such one or more assigned content descriptors can created and or modified and saved for respective ones of the plurality of content as may be identified by content ID . Further a set of one or more content descriptors may be customized for one or more respective channels and or services . Thus in some aspects user interaction with content and channel service menus results in the generation of one or more assigned content descriptors which may be associated with one or more respective channels and or services .

Referring back to network may comprise any data and or communications network. In some aspects for example network comprises all or some portion of a multicast network such as a Forward Link Only FLO network including the above mentioned MediaFLO System available from Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. In other aspects network may include one or a combination of other networks such as a digital video broadcasting DVB network such as DVB S for satellite DVB C for cable DVB T for terrestrial television DVB H for terrestrial television for handhelds a terrestrial telephone network a satellite telephone network an infrared network such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA based network a short range wireless network a Bluetooth technology network a ZigBee protocol network an ultra wide band UWB protocol network a home radio frequency HomeRF network a shared wireless access protocol SWAP network a wideband network such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA network a wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance network and a 802.11 network a public switched telephone network a public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet a private communications network and land mobile radio network.

Further examples of telephone networks that may be included in some aspects of network include one or any combination of analog and digital networks technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS advanced mobile phone service AMPS time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA global system for mobile communications GSM single carrier 1X radio transmission technology RTT evolution data only EV DO technology general packet radio service GPRS enhanced data GSM environment EDGE high speed downlink data packet access HSPDA analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in at least one of a wireless communications network and a data communications network.

In operation referring to some aspects of receiving content comprise obtaining on the wireless device a personalized content preference descriptor based on user characteristic information on the wireless device Block . For example in some aspects wireless device may receive determine and or generate one or more user personalized content preference descriptors either based on user input information and or derived from user device behavior both of which may be included in user characteristic information stored on the respective device. In some aspects the personalized content preference descriptor may correspond to a predetermined content descriptor such as may be defined by a content supplier.

The method further includes obtaining on the wireless device a predetermined content descriptor associated with or corresponding to one of a plurality of content Block . For example in some aspects wireless device may receive one or more assigned content descriptors associated with one or more of the plurality of content received in a multicast flow from MDS . Furthermore in some aspects the predetermined content descriptors may vary from one service to another service and or from one content supplier to another content supplier.

Further the method includes obtaining on the wireless device a multicast transmission of the plurality of content Block . For example in some aspects wireless device may receive one or more of the plurality of content received in multicast flow from MDS . Further for example multicast flow may be associated with a respective one of a plurality of content suppliers.

Additionally the method includes selecting at the wireless device one from the plurality of content based on a match between the predetermined content descriptor and the personalized content preference descriptor Block . For example in some aspects content selection engine on wireless device may identify a correspondence between one or more user personalized content preference descriptors and a received one or more assigned content descriptors associated with one or more of the plurality of content received in the multicast flow from MDS . Upon identifying this correspondence content selection engine extracts the respective one or more of the plurality of content from flow thereby defining selected content . Further for example content selection engine may utilize a predetermined match threshold to determine if a match exists.

Further the method includes processing at the wireless device the selected content Block . For example in some aspects media module on wireless devices may execute selected content and present it to the device user on user interface . In other aspects the processing may include saving selected content to content storage .

Referring to in other aspects a method of distributing content comprises obtaining at a distribution system a plurality of content descriptors defined by a content supplier Block . For example in some aspects media distribution system receives one or more predetermined content descriptors and or associated with one or more service providers such as via service ID and or .

The method further includes obtaining at the distribution system a plurality of content Block . For example in some aspects media distribution system receives one or more of the plurality of content from one or more content providers and or .

Further the method includes obtaining at the distribution system an association between at least one of the plurality of content descriptors and at least one of the plurality of content Block . For example in some aspects content channel manager module receives inputs that define one or more assigned content descriptors for one or more of the plurality of content . In some aspects one or more assigned content descriptor may be selected from predetermined content descriptors and or associated with one or more service providers.

Additionally the method includes multicasting the plurality of content and the association to a plurality of devices Block . For example in some aspects MDS may generate multicast transmission comprising flow of one or more of the plurality of content and the associated one or more assigned content descriptors to one or more wireless devices .

Further the method includes operatively initiating the selective processing of the one of the plurality of content on one of the devices based on a match between the associated content descriptor and a personalized content preference descriptor stored at the respective device Block . For example in some aspects one or more assigned content descriptors transmitted by MDS in association with a respective one or more of the plurality of content are utilized by content selection engine on wireless device to identify a match with one or more personalized content preference descriptors and to then process execute store selected content from the plurality of content based on the match.

Therefore in various aspects the apparatus and methods of the described communication network provide for the distribution of a plurality of content tagged with descriptors and a plurality of predetermined descriptors potentially associated with the content. Further in various aspects the apparatus and methods of the described communication network provide for the retention and presentation of content selected by the wireless device from a multicast of the plurality of content based on a match between user characteristic based descriptors identified from the plurality of predetermined descriptors and respective tagged content. Thus a user of a wireless device is provided with content extracted by the wireless device from a diverse group of content most likely to be of interest to applicable to and or relevant to the user.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternatives the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

While the foregoing disclosure includes illustrative aspects it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of these described aspects as defined by the appended claims. For example although described with regard to a multicast mechanism one or more of the described aspects may be applied to other types of broadcast systems. Further for example although elements of the described aspects may be described as having certain associations or relationships relative to one another it should be understood that the described element and or its functionality may be distributed in any manner. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect unless stated otherwise. Further although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of strict limitation unless otherwise specified. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific aspects disclosed and that modifications and other aspects are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.

