---

title: Systems and methods for establishing first on the follow trading priority in electronic trading systems
abstract: Systems and methods for trading an item in an electronic trading system are provided. The method preferably includes transitioning the trading system from a first trading state to a second trading state. Once the trading system has transitioned to the second state, the method includes determining whether an existing order qualifies for trading priority and/or exclusivity in the second trading state with respect to an incoming contra order. This determining of trading rights in the second trading state is preferably based on the status of trading priority in the first trading state and also a set of predetermined criteria with respect to an incoming contra order in the second trading state. If the existing order qualifies for trading priority, then the system preferably presents the incoming contra order for trading exclusively or semi-exclusively to the participant associated with the existing order.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08229832&OS=08229832&RS=08229832
owner: BGC Partners, Inc.
number: 08229832
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060109
---
The present invention relates to electronic systems and methods for obtaining trading exclusivity and or trading priority in electronic trading systems.

In electronic trading systems that include bids and offers for items a bid or offer that is entered by a participant may typically be entered as available referred to alternatively hereinafter as clear to trade to other participants. Nevertheless certain known trading systems may restrict the availability to certain participant s under certain conditions. For example a Bid Offer may be available only to the current market participants i.e. those with current commitments bids offers . Accordingly preferably only those customers with current participation can hit or lift these incoming entries. Such bids offers may be considered unclear i.e. not available to all trading participants.

In one type of trading system the uncleared bids become available to participants other than the current participants only after a preset or predetermined time interval has expired tracked by a internal system clock or other suitable device .

One criteria that may affect order priority e.g. the exclusive right of certain participants to trade on incoming orders is the respective priority of participants following the transition from a first trading state to a second trading state. For the purposes of this application a trading state is defined as a set of rules or conditions that govern the interaction between trading participants.

It would be desirable to provide systems and methods that further define the rules or conditions that govern the interaction between trading participants when the system transitions from one trading state to a second trading state.

It would be desirable to provide systems and methods that further define the rules or conditions that govern the interaction between trading participants when the system transitions from one trading state to a second trading state.

Systems and methods for trading an item in an electronic trading system are provided. A method according to the invention preferably includes transitioning the trading system from a first trading state to a second trading state. Once the trading system has transitioned to the second state the method includes determining whether an existing order qualifies for trading rights i.e. trading priority and or exclusivity in the second trading state. This determining of trading rights in the second trading state is preferably based on the status of trading rights in the first trading state and also a set of predetermined criteria with respect to an incoming contra order i.e. an order on the other side of a trade or active market e.g. a bid is contra to an offer or other instruction to sell an offer is contra to a bid or instruction to buy in the second trading state. If the existing order qualifies for trading rights then the system preferably presents the incoming contra order for trading exclusively or semi exclusively to the participant associated with the existing order.

In one aspect of the invention trading rules according to the invention disclosed herein relate to being first on the follow . These first on the follow rules relate to the respective priority of participants following the transition from a first trading state to a second trading state for the purposes of this application a trading state is defined as a set of rules or conditions that govern the interaction between trading participants transition from one trading state to a second trading state signifies transitioning from one set of rules or conditions to a second set of rules or conditions . First on the follow rules relate in large part to identifying the participant that will have the right to trade exclusively semi exclusively i.e. the exclusive bidder on incoming offers and the exclusive offeror on incoming bids at the commencement of the new state. It should be noted that in some embodiment of the invention the first on the follow participant may be granted exclusive or semi exclusive rights depending on the rules of the trading system. Any references herein or in the figures to exclusive rights should be understood to refer to either an exclusive or semi exclusive set of rights.

Typically first on the follow priority rights are obtained by the participants identified as the best bidder and the best offeror the term best being defined as highest bidder buyer with respect to price time priority and lowest offeror seller with respect to price time priority at the conclusion of the first trade state. In first on the follow rules according to the invention participants that were previously identified as the best bidder and best offeror at the conclusion of the first trade state may only obtain the first on the follow rights in the second trade state if the best bidder and the best offeror satisfy either a certain minimum order size requirement are within a certain predetermined delta as described in more detail below of the best bidder and the best offeror respectively or satisfy a combination of the minimum order size requirement and the predetermined delta restriction.

Alternatively an additional restriction with respect to obtaining first on the follow rights may relate to the amount purchased or sold during the first trade state by the prospective first on the follow participant. It should be noted that first on the follow rights may obtain a particular advantage for the participant at least because these rights in some embodiments of the invention may entitle the participants to priority with respect to any incoming orders at the commencement of the second trading state.

With respect to hidden size as described below a participant s hidden size may be considered in satisfying the participant s minimum size requirement for obtaining first on the follow rights.

In yet another rule according to the invention if a participant satisfies first on the follow requirements then the participant may have a preset instruction to the system to either reduce his bid by a predetermined increment or increase his offer by an increment in the second trading state. Preferably the respective increase or decrease reduces his exposure to an incoming order while maintaining his first on the follow position and the trading privileges such as for example the exclusive right to trade against incoming orders associated therewith. Alternatively exposure may be reduced by reducing the size of the first on the follow order.

In an alternative embodiment the order that is first on the follow should preferably be within a predetermined delta of the best contra order or the incoming order should preferably satisfy some combination of the threshold size and the predetermined delta in order to only be shown to or alternatively to only be available to be traded by select participants that are first on the follow.

With respect to yet another embodiment of the invention hidden size i.e. a portion of the order that is not shown to the rest of the participants but if acted upon is tradable may also count toward satisfying the minimum size requirement of the order either as the first on the follow order or the current order in the system.

Yet another aspect of the invention provides rules associated with a method that restricts all incoming orders to a select number of traders. For example the exclusive bidder or offeror preferably has an option to exclusively trade on an incoming order although another participant is behind the exclusive bidder or offeror and has the ability to indicate a willingness to hit the incoming bid or lift the incoming offer if the exclusive bidder or offeror refuses to act on the incoming order. In one rule according to the invention the exclusive bidder or offeror may preferably set or have set his respective default position to trade on an incoming bid or offer when there is another participant who has indicated a willingness to hit the incoming bid or lift the incoming offer. Thus the default position becomes a take when another party has indicated that he is willing . . . take or hit when another party has indicated that he is willing . . . hit. 

This rule may preferably be implemented in at least a state where bids and offers are posted i.e. a bid offer state as well as a state wherein trades actually occur and bids and offers are matched.

It should be noted that the default position described herein for the take when take or hit when hit order may preferably be further restricted to only act when the incoming order is a predetermined delta as described in more detail above from the headline price see element in in bid offer state or the trading price in the state in which matches occur.

Referring to exemplary system for implementing the present invention is shown. As illustrated system may include one or more workstations . Workstations may be local or remote and are connected by one or more communications links to computer network that is linked via communications links to server . Server is linked via communications link to back office clearing center .

In system server may be any suitable server processor computer or data processing device or combination of the same. Server and back office clearing center may form part of the electronic trading system. Furthermore server may also contain an electronic trading system and application programming interface and merely transmit a Graphical User Interface or other display screens to the user at the user workstation or the Graphical User Interface may reside on Workstation .

Computer network may be any suitable computer network including the Internet an intranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a wireless network a digital subscriber line DSL network a frame relay network an asynchronous transfer mode ATM network a virtual private network VPN or any combination of any of the same. Communications links and may be any communications links suitable for communicating data between workstations and server such as network links dial up links wireless links hard wired links etc.

Workstations may be personal computers laptop computers mainframe computers dumb terminals data displays Internet browsers Personal Digital Assistants PDAs two way pagers wireless terminals portable telephones programmed computers having memory the programmed computer using the memory for implementing trading models etc. or any combination of the same. Workstations may be used to implement the electronic trading system application and application programming interface according to the invention.

Back office clearing center may be any suitable equipment such as a computer a laptop computer a mainframe computer etc. or any combination of the same for causing transactions to be cleared through a clearinghouse and or verifying that transactions are cleared through a clearinghouse. This clearing is not to be confused with being clear to trade which is defined in more detail above. Communications link may be any communications links suitable for communicating data between server and back office clearing center such as network links dial up links wireless links hard wired links etc.

The server the back office clearing center and one of the workstations which are depicted in are illustrated in more detail in . Referring to workstation may include processor display input device and memory which may be interconnected. In a preferred embodiment memory contains a storage device for storing a workstation program for controlling processor . The storage device may include software stored on a suitable storage medium such as a disk. Memory also preferably contains an electronic trading system application according to the invention.

Electronic trading system application may preferably include application program interface or alternatively as described above electronic trading system application may be resident in the memory of server . In this embodiment the electronic trading system may contain application program interface as a discrete application from the electronic trading system application which also may be included therein. The only distribution to the user may then be a Graphical User Interface which allows the user to interact with electronic trading system application resident at server .

Processor uses the workstation program to present on display electronic trading system application information relating to market conditions received through communication link and trading commands and values transmitted by a user of workstation . Furthermore input device may be used to manually enter commands and values in order for these commands and values to be communicated to the electronic trading system.

Typically an incoming order that is not clear to trade is indicated by a visual indicator e.g. an asterisk preferably adjacent to the price associated with the new order See asterisk adjacent to price in . In the embodiment shown in in the particular circumstance where only a portion of an order is not cleared to trade a visual indicator may be displayed in bid and offer stacks and adjacent the volume of the partially cleared order to indicate that only a portion of the order is cleared to be traded or in some other suitable location which differentiates the partially cleared order from the totally uncleared order or from the totally clear order.

Step queries whether a first on the follow order in the system satisfies a minimum size requirement. Step shows that if the first on the follow order satisfies the minimum size requirement then the participant associated with the first on the follow order is rewarded with exclusive rights to trade against the incoming contra order assuming in certain embodiments that the incoming order has price time priority over other current orders and that the incoming order also satisfies the minimum size requirement see and the corresponding text .

It should be noted that each of share similar steps X X and X. The FIGs. are differentiated for the most part based on the query step of X in which each flow chart describes a unique query.

It should be noted that each of the different query steps in may be used simultaneously with one another to provide multiple queries that are combined to determine whether any first on the follow order or alternatively any incoming order is rewarded with exclusivity. Thus the trading system may query numerous different queries before a current participant associated with a current order is awarded exclusive or semi exclusive rights to trade with an incoming order.

It should be noted that this particular feature is not limited to first on the follow but in fact extends to any suitable trading situation. Thus any bid or offer could be placed whereby the bid is only active if another bid having inferior trading rights because for example the inferior bid was later in time is at the same price and has indicated a willingness to trade.

Thus systems and method for defining criteria for obtaining exclusive priority in electronic trading systems have been provided. It will be understood that the foregoing is only illustrative of the principles of the invention and that various modifications can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

