---

title: Method and apparatus for transmitting and receiving high speed data using code division multiple access channels
abstract: The present invention describes a spread spectrum communication system wherein the frequency of carriers and the code channels of the carriers or both for transmission to a given remote station user vary in time. This provides for a direct sequence spectrum communications system which changes frequency or code channel according to a predetermined pattern. The code channels and frequencies can be determined in accordance with a deterministic function or based upon a subset of the data to be transmitted. A receiver structure is also described for receiving the same.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07675961&OS=07675961&RS=07675961
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 07675961
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060410
---
The present Application for Patent is a Continuation of application Ser. No. 09 113 770 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 027 484 entitled Method and Apparatus for Transmitting and Receiving High Speed Data Using Code Division Multiple Access Channels filed Jul. 10 1998 now allowed and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to communications. More particularly the present invention relates to a novel and improved communication system wherein the user transmits data using code division multiple access communication channels which are transmitted in varying frequency bands and varying code channels.

The present invention is concerned with transmitting data at rates which are higher than the capacity of a single code division multiple access CDMA channel. Many solutions to this problem have been proposed. One such solution is to allocate multiple CDMA code channels to the users and allow those users to transmit data in parallel on the plurality of code channels available to them. Two methods for providing multiple CDMA channels for use by a single user are described in copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 431 180 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING VARIABLE RATE DATA IN A COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM USING STATISTICAL MULTIPLEXING filed Apr. 28 1997 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 777 990 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING VARIABLE RATE DATA IN A COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM USING NON ORTHOGONAL OVERFLOW CHANNELS issued Jul. 7 1998 both of which are assigned to the assignee of the present invention and are incorporated by reference herein. In addition frequency frequency diversity can be obtained by transmitting data over multiple spread spectrum channels that are separated from one another in frequency. A method and apparatus for redundantly transmitting data over multiple CDMA channels is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 166 951 entitled HIGH CAPACITY SPREAD SPECTRUM CHANNEL which is incorporated by reference herein.

CDMA modulation provides one means for establishing communication between users in a large system which includes a number of such users. Other techniques such as time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA and AM modulation schemes such as amplitude companded single sideband ACSSB are known in the art. However the spread spectrum modulation technique of CDMA has significant advantages over these modulation techniques for multiple access communication systems. The use of CDMA techniques in a multiple access communication system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 901 307 entitled SPREAD SPECTRUM MULTIPLE ACCESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM USING SATELLITE OR TERRESTRIAL REPEATERS assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein. The use of CDMA techniques in a multiple access communication system is further disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 103 459 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING SIGNAL WAVEFORMS IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.

CDMA by its inherent nature of being a wideband signal offers a form of frequency diversity by spreading the signal energy over a wide bandwidth. Therefore frequency selective fading affects only a small part of the CDMA signal bandwidth. Space or path diversity is obtained by providing multiple signal paths through simultaneous links from a mobile user through two or more cell sites. Furthermore path diversity may be obtained by exploiting the multipath environment through spread spectrum processing by allowing a signal arriving with different propagation delays to be received and processed separately. Examples of the utilization of path diversity are illustrated in copending U.S. Pat. No. 5 101 501 entitled SOFT HANDOFF IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM and U.S. Pat. No. 5 109 390 entitled DIVERSITY RECEIVER IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM both assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated by reference herein.

In a first embodiment of a transmitter in accordance with the present invention data is encoded spread and provided to a bank of upconverters each associated with a unique local oscillator. Each upconverter upconverts the spread data to a different center frequency. A switch selects one of the upconverted signals in accordance with a deterministic pseudorandom sequence. Alternatively the spread data is provided to an upconverter which is driven by a variable frequency synthesizer which generates a signal having a frequency determined in accordance with a deterministic pseudorandom sequence.

Three embodiments of a receiver are presented for receiving the data transmitted by the first transmitter embodiment. In a first receiver embodiment the received data is passed to a bank of down converters driven by local oscillators each of which is tuned to a different frequency. The downconverted data is provided to a switch which selects one of the downconverted data streams in accordance with a delayed version of the deterministic sequence used to select the upconversion frequency. In a second receiver embodiment the received data is provided to a downconverterthat downconverts the signal using the output of a variable frequency synthesizer which selects its output frequency in accordance with a delayed version of the deterministic sequence used to select the upconversion frequency. In a third receiver embodiment the received data is provided to a bank of down converters each of which downconverts the signal in accordance with a different center frequency. The downconverted signals are then despread and decoded. A control processor then selects which of the received signals to output based on values commonly referred to as quality metrics calculated to determine the quality of a received frame of data such as 1 the results of a cyclic redundancy check 2 the symbol error rate and 3 trellis metrics such as the Yamamoto metric.

In a second embodiment of the transmitter of the present invention a subset of the information bits to be transmitted are used to select the center frequency of the spread spectrum signal. In one embodiment the data is packetized encoded and spread. The spread data is provided to a bank of upconverters each of which upconvert the spread data to a different center frequency. An upconverted stream of data is then selected from among the streams of data output from the bank of upconverters based upon a subset of the upconverted stream of data to be transmitted. Alternatively the data is packetized encoded spread and provided to an upconverter that upconverts the data in accordance with a signal generated by a variable frequency synthesizer that selects its output frequency based on a subset of the information bits to be transmitted.

At the receiver the received data is provided to a bank of down converters each of which downconverts the signal in accordance with a different center frequency. The down converted signals are despread and decoded. A control processor then selects which of the received signals to output based on frame quality metrics such as 1 the results of a cyclic redundancy check 2 the symbol error rate and 3 trellis metrics such as the Yamamoto metric. The decoded data as well as a data corresponding to the frequency on which the data was received is demultiplexed into an output data stream.

In a third embodiment of the transmitter of the present invention each transmitter is given a plurality of code channels upon which it can transmit data. The transmitter selects the code channel upon which to transmit the data in accordance with a subset of the information data to be transmitted. At the receiver the received data is provided to a bank of code channel dechannelizers. Each of the despread signals is provided to a decoder. The decoded data is provided to a control processor which selects data to output and demultiplexes that data with the bits corresponding to the code channel upon which the data was received.

In the fourth embodiment of the present invention a subset of the information bits to be transmitted is used to select both the upconversion frequency of the spread spectrum signal and the code channel upon which the signal is to be transmitted. At the receiver the received data is provided to a bank of downconverters each of which downconverts the signal in accordance with a different center frequency. Each of the down converted signals is in turn provided to a bank of code channel dechannelizers. Each of the despread signals is provided to a decoder. The decoded data is provided to a control processor which selects the decoded data to output and demultiplexes that data with the data corresponding to the code channel upon which the data was received and to the frequency channel upon which the data was received.

The encoded symbols are then provided to channelizer which spreads the encoded symbols in accordance with a spreading sequence provided by sequence generator . In the one embodiment sequence generator is a Walsh symbol generator that provides sequences of symbols in accordance with orthogonal Walsh sequences. This is used to separate the channels in a CDMA system. The Walsh sequence data is provided to scrambling means which scrambles the data in accordance with a pseudorandom sequence provided by PN generator . Channelizers and sequence generators are well known in the art and are described in detail in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 5 103 459. It should be noted that many other combinations of channelizer and scrambler are also possible as long as the result is to channelize the various users. The embodiment shown distinguishes channels from one another by orthogonal Walsh encoding followed by a scrambler. However other orthogonal sequences can also be used to provide channelization. Furthermore the channelization does not have to be performed by a set of orthogonal sequences. For example a single stage channelizer where each user is assigned a different PN code could be used.

The scrambled data is provided to a bank of mixers . Each mixer is driven by a corresponding local oscillator . The upconverted data from each of mixers is provided to switch . In the preferred embodiment the local oscillator frequencies are equally separated in frequency so that the frequency of the nLO is f N . In the preferred embodiment the local oscillator frequencies are separated by the chip rate of the PN generator or by some multiple thereof so that is the chip rate or some multiple of the chip rate. Switch selects which one of the upconverted signals to provide to coupled to transmitter TMTR . The upconverted signal that is provided to transmitter is selected in accordance with a signal provided by control processor . In the illustrated embodiment control processor generates the selection signal based on a pseudorandom process. The pseudorandom process can be generated using any one of many methods which are well known in the art for generating such sequences. For example the pseudorandom sequence can be generated by a linear or non linear feedback shift register. It may also be generated by a cryptographic keystream generator. Any of these techniques can use an identity of the mobile station such as the electronic serial number ESN a public key or a secret key. These techniques are well known in the art. In an alternative embodiment the selection signal can be a sequential selection of the first then second up to the n th upconverted signal. In another alternative embodiment the selected frequency may be based upon channel conditions. The receiving system may measure the performance of each channel and then feed the preferred frequency back to the transmitter for use. This may be done by monitoring a signal which is continuously transmitted such as a pilot. The selected signal is provided to transmitter which filters and amplifies the signal and provides it for transmission through antenna . It should be understood that in the preferred embodiment of the present invention at least one other signal similarly generated will be multiplexed together. Preferably the number of such similarly generated signals will be equal to the number of mixer and local oscillator combinations. For example in the case of the embodiment illustrated in three such signals will be multiplexed and transmitted through transmitter . Accordingly data from three different sources and coupled to the transmitter from three different switches only one of which is shown will be multiplexed together before transmission by the transmitter . Each switch selects a mixer that is coupled to a local oscillator that is operating at a different frequency from the frequency of each of the other local oscillators generating the signals that are being concurrently selected by each other switch .

The encoded symbols are then provided to channelizer which channelizes the encoded symbols in accordance with a code sequence provided by sequence generator . In one embodiment sequence generator is a Walsh symbol generator that provides sequences of code symbols in accordance with orthogonal Walsh sequences. The Walsh sequence data is provided to scrambling means which scrambles the data in accordance with a pseudorandom sequence provided by PN generator . Channelizers and sequence generators are well known in the art and are described in detail in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 5 103 459.

The scrambled data is provided to mixer . Mixer is driven by variable frequency synthesizer . Variable frequency synthesizer outputs a driving frequency to mixer in accordance with a signal provided by control processor . In one embodiment control processor generates the frequency selection signal based on a pseudorandom process. In an alternative embodiment the selection signal can be a sequential selection of the first then second up to the n th upconverted signal. The upconverted signal is provided to transmitter which filters and amplifies the signal and provides it for transmission through antenna . Accordingly in an embodiment in which the frequency synthesizer generates three frequencies a signal generated will have a first frequency for a first period of time a second frequency for a second period of time and a third frequency for a third period of time. This sequence will repeat such that the frequency of the signal generated will alternate between the three frequencies over time.

In one embodiment of the present invention in order to ease the burden on the receiver a phase relationship is maintained between the signal generated by the variable frequency synthesizer having a first frequency at a first period in time and the signal generated by the variable frequency synthesizer having that first frequency but at each later time.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention the relationship between the phase of the signal over time is established by using a direct digital synthesizer DDS as follows. is a simplified block diagram of a DDS in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. The DDS shown in comprises summing circuit phase register look up table and analog to digital converter A D . A phase increment signal is applied to a first input to summing circuit . The output from the phase register is applied to a second input to the summing circuit . The output from the summing circuit is stored in the phase register . A register clock is applied to the phase register to shift the value at the input of the register to the output. Therefore after each cycle of the register clock the output from the summing circuit is incremented by the value of the phase increment. The output from phase register is applied to look up table . Look up table converts the value output from phase register from a number representing the relative phase of the output signal to a value that represents the amplitude of a sinusoidal signal at that point in the cycle that corresponds with the phase value. It should be clear that the faster the register clock runs the higher the frequency of the output signal. Likewise the larger the phase increments the higher the frequency. Therefore either the phase increment or the register clock can be used to determine the frequency that will be generated. The A D converter converts the value output from look up table into a corresponding analog voltage level.

In accordance with the present invention memory device is coupled to the output from phase register . Prior to the synthesizer changing frequencies the value of the phase register is stored in memory . When the frequency is again generated at a later time the value stored in memory is coupled to offset processor . Offset processor adjusts the value to account for the amount of time that has elapsed since that frequency was last generated. That is in one embodiment offset processor determines the number of cycles of the phase clock that would have occurred during the period that has elapsed from the time that frequency was last generated. This number is multiplied by the value of the phase increment. The product of this multiplication is added to the value stored in memory . The resulting sum is then restored into the phase register .

The down converted signals are provided to switch . Switch selectively provides one of the down converted signals to descrambler . Descrambler unscrambles the downconverted signal in accordance with a pseudorandom sequence provided by PN generator . The descrambled sequence is provided to dechannelizer which dechannelizes the signal in accordance with sequence provided by sequence generator . In one embodiment sequence generator is an orthogonal Walsh sequence generator. Data is provided to decoder which decodes the data based on the type of encoder used by the transmission system. In one embodiment the encoder is a convolutional encoder and decoder is a trellis decoder. The decoded data is provided to CRC check element which tests to determine whether the decoded check bits correspond to the decoded information bits. If they do then the data is provided to the user otherwise an erasure is declared.

The downconverted signal is provided to descrambler . Descrambler unscrambles the downconverted signal in accordance with a pseudorandom sequence provided by PN generator . The descrambled sequence is provided to dechannelizer which dechannelizes the signal in accordance with the sequence provided by sequence generator . In one embodiment sequence generator is an orthogonal Walsh sequence generator. The data output from dechannelizer is provided to decoder which decodes the data based on the type of encoder used by the transmission system. In one embodiment the encoder is a convolutional encoder and decoder is a trellis decoder. The decoded data is provided to CRC check element which tests to determine whether the decoded check bits correspond to the decoded information bits. If they do the data is provided to the user otherwise an erasure is declared.

Each downconverted signal is provided to a corresponding descrambler . Descramblers unscramble the down converted signal in accordance with a pseudorandom sequence provided by a corresponding PN generator . The descrambled sequences are provided to dechannelizers which dechannelizes the signal in accordance with sequence provided by a corresponding sequence generator . In one embodiment sequence generators are orthogonal Walsh sequence generators. The despread data is provided to decoders which decode the data based on the type of encoder used by the transmission system. In one embodiment the encoder is a convolutional encoder and decoders are trellis decoders. The decoded data is provided to CRC check element which determines whether the decoded check bits correspond to the decoded information bits.

A set of values commonly referred to as quality metrics calculated to determine the quality of a received frame of data is provided to control processor for each decoded stream of data. Control processor outputs to the user the frame having the best quality as determined by the values of the quality metrics. If all of the decoded frames are of inadequate quality as determined by the values of the quality metrics then an erasure is declared. Examples of quality metrics which can be used by control processor to select the frame include 1 accumulated branch metrics from trellis decoders 2 symbol error rate SER and 3 CRC check results.

The remaining information bits to be transmitted are provided to CRC generator which generates and appends a set of bits that can be used to check whether the decoded data was received correctly at the receiver. The bits from CRC generator are provided to encoder . In one embodiment encoder is a convolutional encoder though the present invention is equally applicable to any error correction encoder. Convolutional encoders are well known in the art.

The encoded symbols are then provided to channelizer which channelizes the encoded symbols in accordance with a sequence provided by sequence generator . In one embodiment sequence generator is a Walsh symbol generator that provides sequences of symbols in accordance with orthogonal Walsh sequences. The Walsh sequence data is provided to scrambling means which scrambles the data in accordance with a pseudorandom sequence provided by PN generator . Such channelizers and sequence generators are well known in the art and are described in detail in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 5 103 459.

The scrambled data is provided to a bank of mixers . Each mixer is driven by a corresponding local oscillator . The upconverted data from each mixer is provided to switch . Switch selects one of the upconverted signals to provide to transmitter TMTR . The upconverted signal that is provided to transmitter is selected in accordance with the selection signal provided by control processor .

The remaining information bits to be transmitted are provided to Cyclic Redundancy Check CRC generator . CRC generator generates and appends a set of bits that can be used to check the correctness of the decoded data at the receiver. The bits from CRC generator are provided to encoder . In one embodiment encoder is a convolutional encoder.

The encoded symbols are then provided to channelizer which channelizes the encoded symbols in accordance with a sequence provided by sequence generator . In one embodiment sequence generator is a Walsh symbol generator that provides sequences of symbols in accordance with orthogonal Walsh sequences. The Walsh sequence data is provided to scrambling means which scrambles the data in accordance with a pseudorandom sequence provided by PN generator . Channelizersand sequence generators are well known in the art and are described in detail in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 5 103 459.

The scrambled data is provided to mixer . Mixer is driven by variable frequency synthesizer . Variable frequency synthesizer outputs a driving frequency to mixer in accordance with a signal provided by control processor . In one embodiment control processor generates the frequency selection signal based on a subset of the information bits. The upconverted signal is provided to transmitter which filters and amplifies the signal and provides it for transmission through antenna .

The information data to be transmitted is provided to multiplexer MUX which provides a subset of bits for selecting the code channel on a first output and the remaining bits to be transmitted to a second output. In one embodiment the information bits are used to select the code channel for transmission. However the packetized bits from CRC generator or the encoded symbols from convolutional encoder can be used to select the code channel. The subset of information bits used to select the code channel are provided to control processor . In accordance with the subset of information bits control processor generates and provides a code channel selection signal to switch .

The remaining information bits to be transmitted are provided to CRC generator which generates and appends a set of bits that can be used to check whether the decoded data was correctly received at the receiver. The bits from CRC generator are provided to encoder . In one embodiment encoder is a convolutional encoder though the present invention is equally applicable to any error correction encoder. The implementation of convolutional encoders is well known in the art.

The encoded symbols are then provided to a bank of code channel channelizers . Each code channel channelizer is provided with a unique sequence from a corresponding sequence generator . In one embodiment sequence generators are Walsh symbol generators that provides sequences of symbols in accordance with orthogonal Walsh sequences. The Walsh sequence data from each channelizer is provided to switch . Switch selectively provides one of the spread data sequences to scrambling means . Switch selects which data sequence to provide at its output based on a selection signal from control processor . The control processor generates the signal in accordance with a subset of information bits from control processor .

Scrambling means scrambles the data in accordance with a pseudorandom sequence provided by PN generator . Channelizers and sequence generators are well known in the art and are described in detail in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 5 103 459. The scrambled data is provided to mixer . Mixer is driven by a corresponding local oscillator . The upconverted data is provided to transmitter TMTR .

The information data to be transmitted is provided to multiplexer MUX which provides a subset of bits for selecting the code channel on a first output and the remaining bits to be transmitted to a second output. In one embodiment the information bits are used to select the code channel for transmission. However the packetized bits from CRC generator or the encoded symbols from convolutional encoder can be used to select the code channel. The subset of information bits used to select the code channel is provided to control . In accordance with the subset of information bits control processor generates and provides a code channel selection signal to Walsh symbol generator .

The remaining information bits to be transmitted are provided to CRC generator which generates and appends a set of bits that can be used to check the correctness of the decoded data at the receiver. The bits from CRC generator are provided to encoder . In one embodiment encoder is a convolutional encoder though the present invention is equally applicable to any error correction encoder. The implementation of convolutional encoders is well known in the art.

The encoded symbols are then provided to channelizer . Channelizer is provided with a time varying spreading sequence from corresponding variable sequence generator . In one embodiment variable sequence generators provides sequences in accordance with a predetermined set of orthogonal Walsh sequences. The Walsh sequence data from channelizers is provided to scrambler which scrambles the data in accordance with a pseudorandom sequence provided by PN generator . As noted above such channelizers and sequence generators are well known in the art and described in detail in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 5 103 459. The scrambled data is provided to mixer . Mixer is driven by a corresponding local oscillator . The upconverted data is provided to transmitter TMTR for transmission through antenna .

The downconverted signal is provided to a descrambler . Descrambler unscrambles the down converted signal in accordance with a pseudorandom sequence provided by a corresponding PN generator . The descrambled sequences are provided to the bank of dechannelizers which dechannelizes the signal in accordance with sequence provided by a corresponding sequence generator . In one embodiment sequence generators are an orthogonal Walsh sequence generators. The data is provided to decoders which decodes the data based on the type of encoder used by the transmission system. In one embodiment the encoder is a convolutional encoder and decoders are trellis decoders. The decoded data is provided to CRC check elements which determine whether the decoded check bits correspond to the decoded information bits.

For each decoded stream of data a set of quality metrics is provided to control processor . Control processor selects for output to the user the frame with the best quality based on the values of the set of quality metrics. If all of the decoded frames have inadequate quality as determined by the values of the metrics then an erasure is declared. Examples of quality metrics which can be used by control processor to select the frame include 1 accumulated branch metrics from trellis decoders 2 symbol error rate SER and 3 CRC check results.

The information data to be transmitted is provided to multiplexer MUX which provides a subset of bits for selecting the code channel and the frequency of upconversion and the remaining bits to be transmitted on a third output. In alternative embodiments the packetized bits from CRC generator or the encoded symbols from convolutional encoder can be used to select the code channel and the frequency of the upconversion. The subset of information bits used to select the code channel and the frequency of the upconversion are provided to control processor . In accordance with the subset of information bits control processor provides a code channel selection signal to Walsh symbol generator and provides a frequency selection signal to variable frequency synthesizer .

The remaining information bits to be transmitted are provided to CRC generator which generates and appends a set of bits that can be used to determine whether the decoded data received at the receiver is correct. The bits from CRC generator are provided to encoder . In one embodiment encoder is a convolutional encoder though the present invention is equally applicable to any error correction encoder. Convolutional encoders are well known in the art.

The encoded symbols are then provided to channelizer . Channelizer is provided with a time varying spreading sequence from corresponding variable sequence generator . In one embodiment variable sequence generators provides sequences in accordance with a predetermined set of orthogonal Walsh sequences. The Walsh sequence data from channelizer is provided to scrambler which scrambles the data in accordance with a pseudorandom sequence provided by PN generator . Channelizers and sequence generators are well known in the art and are described in detail in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 5 103 459. The scrambled data is provided to mixer . Mixer is driven by a variable frequency synthesizer . Variable frequency synthesizer generates and provides and driving frequency in accordance with a frequency selection signal from control processor which selects the driving frequency in accordance with a subset of the information bits to be transmitted. The upconverted data is provided to transmitter TMTR for transmission through antenna .

Each downconverted signal is provided to a corresponding descrambler . Descramblers unscramble the down converted signal in accordance with a pseudorandom sequence provided by a corresponding PN generator . The descrambled sequences from descrambler are provided to dechannelizers and the descrambled sequences from descrambler are provided to dechannelizers which dechannelizes each descrambled sequence according to all sequences. Each dechannelizers is driven by a corresponding sequence generator . In one embodiment sequence generators are orthogonal Walsh sequence generators. The despread data is provided to decoders which decodes the data based on the type of encoder used by the transmission system. In one embodiment the encoder is a convolutional encoder and decoders are trellis decoders. The decoded data is provided to CRC check element which determines whether the decoded check bits correspond to the decoded information bits.

For each decoded stream of data and a set of quality metrics for each stream of data is provided to control processor . Control processor selects the frame with the best quality to be output to the user as determined by the values of the metrics. If all of the decoded frames have inadequate quality then an erasure is declared. Examples of quality metrics which can be used by control processor to select the frame include 1 accumulated branch metrics from trellis decoders 2 symbol error rate SER and 3 CRC check results.

The previous description of the preferred embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. However various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without the need for further invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but rather is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features recited in the claims which follow.

