---

title: Ceramic and stacked penetrator against a hardened target
abstract: A projectile for penetrating hardened targets is provided to include a shell having a longitudinal axis substantially perpendicular to an impact surface of the target; and a plurality of penetrator elements disposed in tandem in the shell along the longitudinal axis. The penetrator elements may be composed of ceramic, which has high compressive strength relative to most metals. Selected portions of the penetrator may be composed of heavy metals. The penetrator elements may be separated from each other by gaps, which may be filled with foam or other shock-absorbing material. An alternate projectile provides a unitary penetrator element composed of ceramic.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=H0002230&OS=H0002230&RS=H0002230
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: H0002230
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061130
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to penetrator elements in a projectile for perforating a thick wall target and more particularly to ceramic and multi impact penetrators to deepen a crater in the target.

A hardened target presents challenges for a projectile delivered from an aerial platform due to payload mass and other design restrictions. The transportable quantity of explosive charge in the projectile limits capacity to penetrate a deeply buried target protected by extensive material to absorb the kinetic energy from impact and chemical reaction of the projectile.

Further premature initiation of energetic materials in the projectile may produce only superficial damage to the hardened target. Such penetration may be obviated by kinetic energy transfer from a projectile to the target. However the hardened target may absorb such an impact without sufficient damage for disablement.

Conventional projectile weapons yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular the delivery of kinetic energy from a projectile to a target may include concatenated penetrator elements serially disposed along the longitudinal axis. Other various embodiments alternatively or additionally provide for the penetrator elements being composed of a high strength non metal such as a ceramic.

Various exemplary embodiments provide a projectile for penetrating hardened targets including penetrator elements contained a shell. The elements are disposed within the shell in tandem. The shell includes a longitudinal axis along which the elements are aligned the axis being substantially perpendicular to an impact surface of the target. The penetrator elements may be composed of ceramic which has high compressive strength relative to most metals. Selected portions of the penetrator may be composed of heavy metals. The penetrator elements may be separated from each other by gaps which may be filled with foam or other shock absorbing material. Other various embodiments provide for a unitary penetrator element composed of ceramic.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. The embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

A target penetrating projectile may include one or more penetrator element fragments intended to impact i.e. physically contact a target thereby transferring kinetic energy thereto to cause deformation damage. The projectile may include a shell to contain the impaction elements as well as auxiliary or optional components such as chemical propellants explosive charge guidance and control systems etc. These fragments may be variously labeled penetrator elements or projectiles. A sufficiently energetic impact may serve to penetrate the target s outer casing. However a single fragment that impacts an otherwise undamaged portion of the target may not impart sufficient energy to produce such damage. Due to scatter multiple fragments from a single projectile may only randomly strike the target in broad distribution.

Consequently various exemplary embodiments for a projectile provide for a series of penetrator elements concatenated in tandem i.e. one behind the other single file front to back to sequentially impact the target thereby forming a deformation cavity. Several small projectiles may be packaged together in a stack to maintain alignment during impact. The stack arrangement enables each penetrator element to successively deepen the cavity until breach of the target s outer casing which may be composed of various impact resistant materials such as a concrete slab or armor plate.

In particular the projectile contains several penetrators that are segmented and sequentially arranged in columnar fashion. This configuration contrasts with continuous rods hinged together that remains folded in the delivery vehicle and expands on command. Continous long rods may impart energy to the target by impact thereagainst at a position substantially parallel i.e. tangent to the target surface. Such rods may be characterized as having a high aspect length to diameter or width ratio i.e. slender .

In addition shock waves propagating along the length of continuous rods from impact end to opposite end may reflect from the rod s rear surface occasionally inducing a tensile wave. This tensile wave may propagate back to the rod s impact end causing tensile failure particularly in brittle metals and ceramics typically having high compressive strength and low tensile strength. The same failure mode may be observed in the radial direction for shock wave reflection from the rod outer surface producing radial tensile failure zones.

In many cases the tensile failure zones may be attributed to combined tensile waves propagating along the rod length and rod radius. In addition slender continuous rods generally have limited effectiveness against a reinforced or thick wall target due to their limited compression resistance in the axial direction. These rods may buckle and fracture prior to achieving significant damage to the target.

By comparison the columnar configuration i.e. having a longitudinal axis substantially perpendicular to the target surface maintains integrity in longitudinal compression of the projectile thereby enabling deeper target penetration. The projectile may include penetrator elements such as cylinders in an array along a longitudinal axis of symmetry. Such penetrator elements may be characterized as having a low aspect ratio i.e. short and stubby .

Each cylinder penetrator element may separately collide with the target at the same location in concatenated sequence thereby facilitating multiple strikes the same location and thereby deeper penetration at the impact location. Alternatively the columnar configuration may include a single penetrator element having a moderate to high aspect ratio. Those of ordinary skill will recognize that a projectile may include separate multiple stacks each being substantially perpendicular to the target surface at different locations.

The penetrator elements may include different diameters along the length of their containing array and may provide self sharpening upon impact. These penetrator elements may be separated by gaps or spaces which may be filled with shock absorbing material such as epoxy or rubberized foam. Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that the penetrator elements may represent other shapes arranged along a longitudinal axis and preferably in a substantially axi symmetric pattern. Moreover such artisans will recognize that the shock absorbing material intended to cushion the penetrator elements may preferably be of much softer material than the penetrator elements themselves.

Each segment may be composed of separate materials depending on their position relative to initial impact. For example for penetration the first two segments may be composed of a hard dense metal such as depleted uranium. The gaps between the segments may be filled with foam or other spacing material or may include a clamp to inhibit inertial momentum of further aft segments relative to each other and thereby maintain separation distance. The clamp may be attached to a containment shell that maintains the segments. The further aft segments may be ceramic metal and or reactive material. The furthest aft segment s may preferably be composed of a frangible material to absorb reflected wave energy transmitted through the segments upstream.

Several ceramic and ceramic based composites are commercially available and several super hard nano composites are under development. Examples of ceramic materials include diamond tungsten carbide silicon carbide aluminum oxide beryllium oxide magnesium oxide and zirconium oxide. In preferred embodiments ceramic materials have high Hugoniot elastic limit HEL commonly used to characterize material impact strength as well as high mass density and low cost.

At the impact speeds typically above 2 3 km s these ceramic materials exhibit very high impact strength and thermal stability offering superior penetration properties over high strength metals. Also some launching methods such as by railgun provide for a more gradual acceleration of projectile as compared to explosive launch. More gradual acceleration of projectiles produce lower level of tensile waves traveling in the projectile materials and thus may produce less damage to brittle ceramic type materials.

As example tungsten carbide WC WC ceramic is a high density material with attractive compressive and tensile strength properties. Cercom Inc. at 991 Park Center Dr Vista Calif. 92081 manufactured hot pressed tungsten carbide ceramic. The density and HEL of tungsten carbide varies between 15.53 and 15.56 g cmand 6.6 0.5 GPa respectively. By comparison one of the best commonly used penetrating metal tungsten alloy containing tungsten W nickel Ni and iron Fe in the ratio of 92.85 4.9 2.25 by weight has an HEL near 2.76 0.26 GPa. This tungsten alloy deforms plastically above its HEL and its spall strength is determinded as 1.9 GPa.

Reactive materials generally include particles or powdered forms of one or more reactive metals one or more oxidizers and typically some binder materials. The reactive metals may include aluminium Al beryllium Be hafnium Hf lithium Li magnesium Mg thorium Th titanium Ti uranium U and zirconium Zr as well as combinations alloys and hydrides thereof. The oxidizers may include chlorates such as ammonium perchlorate NHClO lithium perchlorate LiClO magnesium perchlorate Mg ClO potassium perchlorate KClO peroxides and combinations thereof. The binder materials typically include epoxy resins and polymeric materials. Commonly used materials that may release pressurized gaseous products upon impact include aluminium Al Teflon Polytetrafluorethylene or PTFE hafnium Hf fluoropolymer e.g. THV500 reactive materials as well as a number of aluminium alloys.

The serially concatenated segments may be modeled as a discretized continuous rod directed to translate along its longitudinal axis for impact against a target locally characterized as a discretized flat plate. Physical properties of the discrete elements may characterize a homogenous monolith or selectively imposed to describe specific materials.

Similar to show multiple impacts of the moving projectile and target. In particular illustrates crushed penetrator against target and the expanding crater at 8.4 sec after impact. illustrates a subsequent impact of penetrator remnants and target and the through cavity at 12.0 sec after impact. Also in similar fashion to the results from target impact at higher speed induces more efficient penetration mechanism resulting in increased damage to the target. For a dense target material such as tungsten the projectile s disintegration leaves insufficient mass to penetrate secondary components within the target.

In another embodiment one or more high strength penetrator elements may be encased in the shell that provides for residual compression of the penetrator elements along the longitudinal axis. Additionally the shell may radially pre compress these elements. The pre compression state in ceramic and other brittle materials may reduce the influence of tensile waves induced in these materials upon impact and thus increases the integrity of the penetrator elements.

Upon contact with the target the projectile s penetrator elements successively collide thereagainst. These separate concatenated strikes transfer discrete closely spaced kinetic energy to facilitate deeper penetration. This effect may be considered analogous to repeated impacts from a jack hammer on a concrete slab causing deepening localized damage to the concrete slab. The incorporation of ceramic materials for the penetrator elements further improves these penetration characteristics in comparison to metal due to generally higher compressive strength of the former.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

