---

title: Medical lead with segmented electrode
abstract: A medical lead having a conductor assembly and a segmented electrode assembly. The segmented electrode assembly includes a conductive segment electrically coupled to a conductor of the conductor assembly. A passageway is positioned between an inner surface and outer surface of the conductive segment. An electrically insulating material extends through the first passageway and into a gap adjacent the conductive segment. A segmented electrode assembly is also provided. The segmented electrode assembly includes a conductive segment having a passageway between an inner surface and outer surface of the conductive segment. An electrically insulating material extends through the passageway and into a gap adjacent the conductive segment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08000808&OS=08000808&RS=08000808
owner: Medtronic, Inc.
number: 08000808
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060131
---
This application claims priority to provisional U.S. application Ser. No. 60 648 635 filed Jan. 31 2005 which is incorporated by reference.

The invention relates to medical devices and methods more particularly to a method of manufacturing an implantable medical lead having a segmented electrode for electrically stimulating the human body or for sensing.

The medical device industry produces a wide variety of electronic and mechanical devices for treating patient medical conditions such as pacemakers defibrillators neuro stimulators and therapeutic substance delivery pumps. Medical devices may be configured to be surgically implanted or connected externally to the patient receiving treatment. Clinicians use medical devices alone or in combination with therapeutic substance therapies and surgery to treat patient medical conditions. For some medical conditions implantable medical devices provide the best and sometimes the only therapy to restore an individual to a more healthy condition and a fuller life.

An implantable neurological stimulation system may be used to treat conditions such as pain movement disorders epilepsy depression pelvic floor disorders gastroparesis and a wide variety of other medical conditions. Such a neurostimulation system typically includes an implantable neurostimulator a medical electrical stimulation lead and an extension such as that shown in the Medtronic Inc. brochure Implantable Neurostimulation System 1998 . More specifically the neurostimulator system may be an ITREL II Model 7424 neurostimulator system or an ITREL 3 Model 7425 neurostimulator system available from Medtronic Inc. of Minneapolis Minn. that may be used to treat conditions such as pain movement disorders and pelvic floor disorders. The neurostimulator is typically connected to a stimulation lead that has one or more electrodes to deliver electrical stimulation to a specific location in the patient s body.

Some therapies involve electrical stimulation of the brain and others involve stimulation of the spinal cord. Still other therapies involve electrical stimulation of other sites in the patient s body.

Among the various types of implantable medical electrical leads employed to treat pain by electrically stimulating a patient s spinal cord or portions thereof are the Medtronic PISCES QUAD Model No. 3487A and PISCES Z QUAD Model No. 3890 3891 and 3892 medical electrical leads. These leads are designed to be percutaneously introduced near a patient s spinal cord and aid in the management of chronic intractable pain via pulsed electrical stimulation through nerve structures in the dorsal aspect of the spinal cord. Activation of the stimulated structures produces nerve impulses that often inhibit the transmission of pain.

Currently commercially available PISCES leads have four platinum iridium electrodes mounted on the distal ends of the leads. Each electrode is 3 mm long and is spaced 6 mm from the adjacent electrode s . Each PISCES electrode has a ring shape and extends around the circumference of the lead body. At the proximal end of a PISCES lead is an in line four conductor connector for mechanical and electrical attachment to a lead extension or an implantable stimulator. Each electrode thus has a single unique electrical conductor associated with it.

Experience with the PISCES series of leads has shown that intraoperative stimulation tests and lead position adjustments should generally be performed on a patient to ascertain optimal lead position and orientation. Various electrode configurations locations and orientations are tested to obtain appropriate parasthesia during surgery repositioning the lead as necessary. Certain precautions may be taken during surgery to minimize the risk that lead position will shift post operatively such as anchoring the distal portion of the lead with non biodegradable sutures to the supra spinous ligament or deep fascia. Despite careful testing positioning and anchoring of percutaneously spinal cord stimulation leads during surgery however in some patients inadequate or minimal therapeutic effect is nevertheless obtained. In still other patients leads may shift position post operatively resulting in inadequate or no parasthesiatic effect.

Segmented electrodes also referred to as segments herein which are electrodes that do not extend around the full circumference of the lead body at the point of stimulation e.g. may extend anywhere from about 1 degree of arc to about 359 degrees of arc may be desired for targeted stimulation or for efficient use of energy. For example for deep brain stimulation it may be desirable to stimulate on only one side of the lead while avoiding stimulation on the other side in which case a single segment of about 180 degrees may be one solution . Or it may be desirable to stimulate on one side of the lead under certain conditions and the other side under different conditions or at a different time one solution for this may be to have two or more segments each of 60 100 120 or 160 degrees of arc for example at the same axial position or location on the lead .

One concern with segmented medical leads is the interaction between the electrode and the lead body. Ring shaped electrodes used for non segmented electrodes do not generally share this problem because the ring shape holds the electrode to the lead body. Lead failure by a segmented electrode pulling away from the lead body is cause for concern. Such a failure not only possibly results in an inoperative lead but also presents the significant problem of how to remove the lead from the patient s body without harming surrounding tissue. A lead is desired that solves this problem and is easily manufactured.

The foregoing and other features and advantages which will now become more readily apparent by referring to the following specification drawings and claims are provided by the various embodiments of the present invention.

In one embodiment a medical lead having a conductor assembly and a segmented electrode assembly is provided. The segmented electrode assembly includes a conductive segment electrically coupled to a conductor of the conductor assembly. A passageway is positioned between an inner surface and outer surface of the conductive segment. An electrically insulating material extends through the first passageway and into a gap adjacent the conductive segment.

In another embodiment a segmented electrode assembly is provided. The segmented electrode assembly includes a conductive segment having a passageway between an inner surface and outer surface of the conductive segment. An electrically insulating material extends through the passageway and into a gap adjacent the conductive segment.

At block at least a portion of the bridge is removed resulting in a segmented electrode assembly having at least one segment. As will be discussed in more detail below the coupled electrically insulating material holds the electrode segment or segments to the assembly so that the bridge s are no longer needed. Removal of the bridge or bridges or at least a portion thereof allows the segment s to be electrically isolated from each other. One embodiment of removing a bridge or portion of a bridge is to cut through the coupled tube and electrically insulating material at a location that removes the electrical connection between adjacent segments. Cutting for purposes herein includes grinding.

The tube is then placed in a mold at block and insert molded by injecting an electrically insulating material into the mold at block . One embodiment of the resulting coupled tube and insulating material member is shown in as member that includes tube and electrically insulating material . In one embodiment electrically insulating material is PEEK polyetheretherketone or polysulfone. At block one or more or all bridges are removed or partially removed to electrically isolate the segments from each other. In one embodiment the bridges are removed by cutting off the ends of the tube after it has been coupled with the electrically insulating material. At block additional cuts may be made in the member if multiple segmented electrode assemblies are being manufactured out of a single member . At block end slots are machined into one or more of the segments. Machining may be performed by many different methods including but not limited to drilling laser machining EDM electrical discharge machining plasma cutting. These end slots are for accommodating receipt and connection of the conductors to the segments. illustrates an almost completed segmented electrode assembly having eight end slots only five shown and . Note that the milled area of the tube results in a retaining surface e.g. surface which results in the electrically insulating material holding the segments e.g. segment in place along their full length and preventing them from pulling or peeling away from the assembly after the bridge s are removed. Also note that machining end slots on both ends of a segmented electrode assembly allows the assemblies to be placed on a conductor assembly either end first. In order to accommodate a conductor assembly running down the center of the segmented electrode assembly a hole is created in the electrically insulating material along the longitudinal axis of the member at block . In one embodiment the hole is created by drilling. For purposes of this application drilling includes boring. shows the completed segmented electrode assembly after such drilling to create the hole . In the embodiment shown in the diameter of the hole is such that a layer of insulating material remains on the inside surfaces of the segments. In an alternative embodiment the hole in the segmented electrode assembly may be obtained by inserting a pin into the tube before coupling the tube with the electrically insulating material. In this way the hole is reserved as the injected insulating material is not allowed to be injected into that space. After injection is completed the pin may be removed and the end slots machined.

Once a segmented electrode assembly is made one or more segmented electrode assemblies may be used to make a medical lead. This process is now described in conjunction with . At block one or more segmented electrode assemblies are made. At block the one or more segmented electrode assemblies are placed on a conductor assembly along the longitudinal axis of the segmented electrode assembly or assemblies. illustrates one embodiment of a conductor assembly. A conductor assembly is one or more conductors and supporting structure if any. The conductors may be in any configuration such as straight line or coiled. The number of conductors in the conductor assembly depends on the number of electrodes and whether or not electrodes are to be electrically coupled together. For example if the lead is to have two segmented electrode assemblies each with four segments then eight conductors are used. One such embodiment is shown in . Another embodiment lead may have four segmented electrode assemblies and each with two segments as shown in . This embodiment also has eight conductors. Another embodiment may have four segmented electrode assemblies each having four segments. In such an embodiment sixteen conductors may be used.

The conductors may be manufactured from a wide range of materials that are electrically conductive such as MP35N platinum and the like. In some embodiments a conductor may comprise a plurality of wires that may be configured as braided strand wire BSW . BSW is available in many configurations including seven wire BSW. When low impedance is desired the core of each wire may be manufactured from a low impedance metal such as silver and the jacket may be manufactured from a material with good mechanical strength properties such as MP35N. One embodiment of conductor uses seven wire BSW with a silver core and an MP35N jacket typically with a resistance of less than about 0.098 ohms cm 3 ohms foot and a tensile strength greater than 5N. The conductor may be electrically insulated with a flouro polymer such as ethyletetraflouroethylene with a coating thickness of approximately 0.0002 cm 0.0008 inch .

Conductor assembly includes 8 conductors coiled around a stylet receiving member . Four of the conductors terminate at one more proximal axial position and another four conductors terminate at a more distal axial location. In a first segmented electrode assembly has been placed on the conductor assembly by sliding the first segmented electrode assembly onto the conductor assembly. The conductor assembly is positioned along the longitudinal axis of the first segmented electrode assembly. At block of the at least one of the one or more conductors of the conductor assembly are electrically coupled to at least one of the one or more segments of the one or more segmented electrode assemblies. One embodiment of this step is shown in . The ends of conductors and shown in are placed into the four proximal end slots only proximal end slot is shown in with the end of conductor shown positioned in the end slot . In a second segmented electrode assembly is placed on the conductor assembly . Ends of conductors and are placed into four of the end slots in second segmented electrode assembly . Note that either the distal end slots and or the proximal end slots such as end slot or a combination of both distal and proximal end slots may be used for receipt of the ends of conductors and . The ends of conductors are electrically coupled to the segments of the segmented electrode assemblies. In one embodiment the conductors are welded to the end slots of the segments for such electrical coupling.

At block of the coupled conductor assembly and one or more segmented electrode assemblies are placed in a mold. In the case of two or more segmented electrode assemblies on a single lead adjacent segmented electrode assemblies are longitudinally spaced apart or separated by a space. This space is filled or partially filled with a second insulating material. In one embodiment a second electrically insulating material is injected into the mold at block to provide the spacers between segmented electrode assemblies and may also include the tip of the lead. In one embodiment the second electrically insulating material is injected slowly at low pressure e.g. less than 1000 psi to prevent displacement of electrical conductors and prevent mechanical loading of electrical connections during the injection process. shows the medical lead after the steps of blocks and . In the embodiment shown in the outer shape of the lead is substantially cylindrical. The second electrically insulating material may be the same or different from the electrically insulating material used in the making of the segmented electrode assemblies. In one embodiment the second electrically insulating material is polyurethane. This overmolding structurally connects the conductor assembly and the segmented electrode assemblies together as well as provides a smooth outer surface for the distal end of the lead by filling in the spaces between segmented electrode assemblies and the lead tip. Note that the proximal portion of the lead beginning just proximal of spacer may later be covered with a polyurethane tubing that may be bonded to the overmolded spacer . is a cross sectional view of lead .

Returning now to a discussion of making a segmented electrode assembly there are a number of alternative embodiments of tubes that may be made and or used. The discussion above referred mostly to the first embodiment shown in . is a flowchart showing the steps of making a tube according to the second and fourth embodiments of tubes. The second embodiment tube is shown in . The fourth embodiment tube is shown in . Block of is placing an inner component of the tube into an outer component of the tube. An outer component is generally cylindrical and hollow and defines one or more gaps and one or more bridges. One embodiment of an outer component is shown as outer component in . Outer component includes four gaps such as gap . Outer component also includes eight bridges e.g. bridge . An outer component also has an inner surface which is the surface facing inward toward the hollow space and an outer surface facing outward. Outer component has inner surface and outer surface . The inner component is generally cylindrical and may be hollow. The inner component will also have at least one gap at a first axial position and at least one bridge at a second axial location. One embodiment inner component is inner component in . Inner component includes four gaps including gap . Inner component also includes eight bridges e.g. bridge . An inner component also includes an outer surface that faces outward ultimately facing the inner surface of the outer component. Inner component has an outer surface . An inner component may also include an inner surface that faces inward if the inner component is hollow . Inner component includes inner surface .

In one embodiment of an inner component the outer surface of the inner component includes one or more higher portions and one or more lower portions. A higher portion has a greater diameter than a lower portion. Inner component includes four higher portions and three lower portions and . The number of higher and lower portions may depend on how many segmented electrode assemblies are to be manufactured out of one tube. The particular embodiment shown in is designed for manufacturing three segmented electrode assemblies from one tube by making four transverse cuts perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the tube at the four higher portions.

At block the inner component and outer component are aligned so that at least one of the gaps of the inner component is aligned with at least one of the gaps of the outer component. In the embodiment shown in all four gaps of the inner component are aligned with all four gaps of the outer component . This will result in the segmented electrode assemblies having 4 electrically isolated segments.

At block the inner component is attached to the outer component resulting in a tube. For example inner component is attached to outer component by welding resulting in tube . See for example weld locations and . For purposes of this application welding includes brazing.

The higher and lower portions of the inner component result in a passageway between the outer component and the inner component for each lower portion. A passageway for purposes herein is defined as an encapsulated space wherein the only inlets or outlets to the encapsulated space are through one or more gaps using the definition of the term gap above. See for example passageways and in . The passageways fill or partially fill with the injected electrically insulating material as shown in that show one embodiment of a coupled tube and electrically insulating material . Electrically insulating material extends into the passageways and . The existence of the electrically insulating material in the passageway or passageways provides additional retention of the segments. show various views of a segmented electrode assembly after being cut from the coupled tube and electrically insulating material . The embodiment segmented electrode assembly shown in includes four segments and each separated by a gap from the adjacent segments. The electrically insulating material extends circumferentially along the inner surface of the segment in the gaps and into the four passageways not visible in .

The steps of are one embodiment method for making the segmented electrode assemblies of the second third and fourth embodiments. Note also that once the inner component is attached to the outer component and the bridges removed or partially removed to form a segmented electrode assembly such as assembly in the segments e.g. and have an inner surface e.g. inner surface of segment and an outer surface e.g. outer surface of segment . The inner surface of a segment is the surface facing inward toward the eventual conductor assembly and the outer surface is the surface of the segment that face the human tissue upon implantation. A segment may also have longitudinal edge surfaces. A longitudinal edge surface is a surface of a segment adjacent a gap. See for example longitudinal edge surfaces and in . Longitudinal edge surfaces and are a part of segment . Longitudinal edge surface is part of segment . Insulating material extends between longitudinal edge surfaces and .

Furthermore a segmented electrode assembly of the second third and fourth embodiments may be used to make a medical lead by the same process as described above with respect to FIGS. and .

The various segmented electrodes may be activated to deliver electric pulses or deactivated independently of each other. In alternative embodiments in which it may be desired to reduce the number of conductors in the lead segments may be electrically coupled together. For example in a DBS application with 4 quarter segments the two opposite segments could be electrically coupled together. Electrically coupling segments together may be accomplished by welding the same conductor to both segments or by leaving a bridge between the two segments.

Thus embodiments of the method of manufacturing a medical lead are disclosed. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention can be practiced with embodiments other than those disclosed. The disclosed embodiments are presented for purposes of illustration and not limitation and the present invention is limited only by the claims that follow.

