---

title: Biphenyl compounds useful in the treatment or prevention of cardiovascular disorders
abstract: 

wherein U, V and W together form a group of the formula *—CH═CH—CH<, *—CH—CH—CH< or *—CH—CH—N<, in which * means the point of linkage to the phenyl ring; A is O or CH; and D, E, X, Y, Z, R, R, o, n, and p are as defined in the specification. The invention also relates to pharmaceutical compositions of the compound of the compounds. The compounds and pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can be used in the treatment or prevention of cardiovascular disorders.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07998988&OS=07998988&RS=07998988
owner: Bayer Schering Pharma Aktiengellschaft
number: 07998988
owner_city: Berlin
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20061009
---
This application is a National Stage Application filed under 35 U.S.C. 371 based on International Application No. PCT EP2006 009722 filed Oct. 9 2006 which claims priority to German Patent Application Number 102005050377.2 filed Oct. 21 2005 the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing application and all documents cited therein and all documents cited or referenced therein and all documents cited or referenced herein including any U.S. or foreign patents or published patent applications International patent applications as well as any non patent literature references and any manufacturer s instructions are hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The present application relates to novel heterocyclic compounds processes for their preparation their use for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases and their use for producing medicaments for the treatment and or prophylaxis of diseases especially for the treatment and or prevention of cardiovascular disorders.

One of the most important cellular transmission systems in mammalian cells is cyclic guanosine monophosphate cGMP . Together with nitric oxide NO which is released from the endothelium and transmits hormonal and mechanical signals it forms the NO cGMP system. Guanylate cyclases catalyze the biosynthesis of cGMP from guanosine triphosphate GTP . The representatives of this family disclosed to date can be divided both according to structural features and according to the type of ligands into two groups the particulate guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by natriuretic peptides and the soluble guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by NO. The soluble guanylate cyclases consist of two subunits and very probably contain one heme per heterodimer which is part of the regulatory site. The latter is of central importance for the mechanism of activation. NO is able to bind to the iron atom of heme and thus markedly increase the activity of the enzyme. Heme free preparations cannot by contrast be stimulated by NO. Carbon monoxide CO is also able to attach to the central iron atom of heme but the stimulation by CO is distinctly less than that by NO.

Through the production of cGMP and the regulation resulting therefrom of phosphodiesterases ion channels and protein kinases guanylate cyclase plays a crucial part in various physiological processes in particular in the relaxation and proliferation of smooth muscle cells in platelet aggregation and adhesion and in neuronal signal transmission and in disorders caused by an impairment of the aforementioned processes. Under pathophysiological conditions the NO cGMP system may be suppressed which may lead for example to high blood pressure platelet activation increased cellular proliferation endothelial dysfunction atherosclerosis angina pectoris heart failure thromboses stroke and myocardial infarction.

A possible way of treating such disorders which is independent of NO and aims at influencing the cGMP signaling pathway in organisms is a promising approach because of the high efficiency and few side effects which are to be expected.

Compounds such as organic nitrates whose effect is based on NO have to date been exclusively used for the therapeutic stimulation of soluble guanylate cyclase. NO is produced by bioconversion and activates soluble guanylate cyclase by attaching to the central iron atom of heme. Besides the side effects the development of tolerance is one of the crucial disadvantages of this mode of treatment.

Some substances which directly stimulate soluble guanylate cyclase i.e. without previous release of NO have been described in recent years such as for example 3 5 hydroxymethyl 2 furyl 1 benzylindazole YC 1 Wu et al. 84 1994 4226 M lsch et al. 120 1997 681 fatty acids Goldberg et al. 252 1977 1279 diphenyliodonium hexafluorophosphate Pettibone et al. 116 1985 307 isoliquiritigenin Yu et al. 114 1995 1587 and various substituted pyrazole derivatives WO 98 16223 WO 98 16507 and WO 98 23619 .

The above described stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase stimulate the enzyme either directly via the heme group carbon monoxide nitric oxide or diphenyliodonium hexafluorophosphate by interacting with the iron center of the heme group and a change in conformation which results therefrom and leads to an increase in the enzymic activity Gerzer et al. 132 1981 71 or via a heme dependent mechanism which is independent of NO but leads to a potentiation of the stimulating effect of NO or CO e.g. YC 1 Hoenicka et al. 77 1999 14 or the pyrazole derivatives described in WO 98 16223 WO 98 16507 and WO 98 23619 .

It has not been possible to confirm the stimulating effect asserted in the literature of isoliquiritigenin and of fatty acids such as for example of arachidonic acid prostaglandin endoperoxides and fatty acid hydroperoxides on soluble guanylate cyclase cf. for example Hoenicka et al. 77 1999 14 .

If the heme group is removed from soluble guanylate cyclase the enzyme still shows a detectable basal catalytic activity i.e. cGMP is still produced. The remaining basal catalytic activity of the heme free enzyme cannot be stimulated by any of the aforementioned known stimulators.

Stimulation of heme free soluble guanylate cyclase by protoporphyrin IX has been described Ignarro et al. 26 1994 35 . However protoporphyrin IX can be regarded as a mimic of the NO heme adduct which is why addition of protoporphyrin IX to soluble guanylate cyclase ought to lead to production of a structure of the enzyme corresponding to the heme containing soluble guanylate cyclase which is stimulated by NO. This is also verified by the fact that the stimulating effect of protoporphyrin IX is increased by the NO independent but heme dependent stimulator YC 1 described above M lsch et al. 355 R47 .

In contrast to the above described stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase the compounds of the present invention are able to activate both the heme containing and the heme free form of soluble guanylate cyclase. Thus with these novel activators the enzyme is stimulated via a heme independent pathway which is also verified by the facts that the novel activators firstly show no synergistic effect with NO on the heme containing enzyme and secondly the effect of these novel activators cannot be blocked by the heme dependent inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase 1H 1 2 4 oxadiazole 4 3 a quinoxaalin 1 one ODQ .

EP 0 341 551 A1 discloses alkenoic acid derivatives as leukotriene antagonists for the treatment of disorders of the circulatory and respiratory systems. WO 01 19355 WO 01 19776 WO 01 19778 WO 01 19780 WO 02 070462 and WO 02 070510 describe dicarboxylic acid and amino dicarboxylic acid derivatives as stimulators of soluble guanylate cyclase for the treatment of cardiovascular disorders. However it has emerged that these compounds have disadvantages in relation to their pharmacokinetic properties such as in particular a low bioavailability and or an only short duration of action after oral administration.

It was therefore an object of the present invention to provide novel compounds which act as activators of soluble guanylate cyclase but do not have the aforementioned disadvantages of the prior art compounds.

Compounds according to the invention are the compounds of the formula I and the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof the compounds which are encompassed by formula I and are of the formulae mentioned hereinafter and the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof and the compounds which are encompassed by formula I and are mentioned hereinafter as exemplary embodiments and the salts solvates and solvates of the salts thereof insofar as the compounds encompassed by formula I and mentioned hereinafter are not already salts solvates and solvates of the salts.

The compounds according to the invention may depending on their structure exist in stereoisomeric forms enantiomers diastereomers . The invention therefore relates to the enantiomers or diastereomers and respective mixtures thereof. The stereoisomerically pure constituents can be isolated in a known manner from such mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers.

Where the compounds according to the invention can occur in tautomeric forms the present invention encompasses all tautomeric forms.

Salts preferred for the purposes of the present invention are physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention. However salts which are themselves unsuitable for pharmaceutical applications but can be used for example for isolating or purifying the compounds according to the invention are also encompassed.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention include acid addition salts of mineral acids carboxylic acids and sulfonic acids e.g. salts of hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid phosphoric acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid toluenesulfonic acid benzenesulfonic acid naphthalenedisulfonic acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid propionic acid lactic acid tartaric acid malic acid citric acid fumaric acid maleic acid and benzoic acid.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention also include salts of conventional bases such as for example and preferably alkali metal salts e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium and magnesium salts and ammonium salts derived from ammonia or organic amines having 1 to 16 C atoms such as for example and preferably ethylamine diethylamine triethylamine ethyldiisopropylamine monoethanolamine diethanolamine triethanolamine dicyclohexylamine dimethylaminoethanol procaine dibenzylamine N methylmorpholine arginine lysine ethylenediamine and N methylpiperidine.

Solvates refer for the purposes of the invention to those forms of the compounds according to the invention which form a complex in the solid or liquid state through coordination with solvent molecules. Hydrates are a specific form of solvates in which the coordination takes place with water. Solvates preferred in the context of the present invention are hydrates.

The present invention also encompasses prodrugs of the compounds according to the invention. The term prodrugs encompasses compounds which themselves may be biologically active or inactive but are converted during their residence time in the body into compounds according to the invention for example by metabolism or hydrolysis .

In the context of the present invention the substituents have the following meaning unless otherwise specified 

 C C Alkyl and C C alkyl are in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched alkyl radical having respectively 1 to 6 and 1 to 4 carbon atoms. A straight chain or branched alkyl radical having 1 to 4 carbon atoms is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl 1 ethylpropyl n pentyl and n hexyl.

 C C Alkanediyl is in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched divalent alkyl radical having 1 to 7 carbon atoms. A straight chain alkanediyl radical having 1 to 6 carbon atoms is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are methylene 1 2 ethylene ethane 1 1 diyl 1 3 propylene propane 1 1 diyl propane 1 2 diyl propane 2 2 diyl 1 4 butylene butane 1 2 diyl butane 1 3 diyl butane 2 3 diyl pentane 1 5 diyl pentane 2 4 diyl 3 methylpentane 2 4 diyl and hexane 1 6 diyl.

 C C Alkenediyl is in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched divalent alkenyl radical having 2 to 7 carbon atoms and up to 3 double bonds. A straight chain alkenediyl radical having 2 to 6 carbon atoms and up to 2 double bonds is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are ethene 1 1 diyl ethene 1 2 diyl propene 1 1 diyl propene 1 2 diyl propene 1 3 diyl but 1 ene 1 4 diyl but 1 ene 1 3 diyl but 2 ene 1 4 diyl buta 1 3 diene 1 4 diyl pent 2 ene 1 5 diyl hex 3 ene 1 6 diyl and hexa 2 4 diene 1 6 diyl.

 C C Alkynediyl is in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched divalent alkynyl radical having 2 to 7 carbon atoms and up to 3 triple bonds. A straight chain alkanediyl radical having 2 to 6 carbon atoms and up to 2 triple bonds is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are ethyne 1 2 diyl propyne 1 3 diyl but 1 yne 1 4 diyl but 1 yne 1 3 diyl but 2 yne 1 4 diyl pent 2 yne 1 5 diyl pent 2 yne 1 4 diyl and hex 3 yne 1 6 diyl.

 C C Alkoxy and C C alkoxy are in the context of the invention a straight chain or branched alkoxy radical having respectively 1 to 6 and 1 to 4 carbon atoms. A straight chain or branched alkoxy radical having 1 to 4 carbon atoms is preferred. Examples which may be preferably mentioned are methoxy ethoxy n propoxy isopropoxy n butoxy tert butoxy n pentoxy and n henoxy.

Halogen in the context of the invention includes fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine. Chlorine or fluorine are preferred.

If radicals in the compounds according to the invention are substituted the radicals may unless otherwise specified be substituted one or more times. In the context of the present invention all radicals which occur more than once have a mutually independent meaning. Substitution by one two or three identical or different substituents is preferred. Substitution by one substituent is very particularly preferred.

Particular preference is given in the context of the present invention to compounds of the formula I A 

Particular preference is given in the context of the present invention also to compounds of the formula I B 

Particular preference is given in the context of the present invention also to compounds of the formula I C 

Particular preference is given in the context of the present invention to compounds of the formulae I A and I B in which

Particular preference is given in the context of the present invention also to compounds of the formula I C in which

The definitions of radicals indicated specifically in the respective combinations or preferred combinations of radicals are replaced as desired irrespective of the particular combinations indicated for the radicals also by definitions of radicals of other combinations.

The invention further relates to processes for preparing the compounds of the invention of the formula I characterized in that either

Inert solvents suitable for process step II 1 III 1 are in particular dimethyl sulfoxide or dimethylformamide. The reaction is generally carried out in a temperature range from 50 C. to 100 C.

Process step III 1 IV V 1 is carried out in its first stage acylation step preferably in dimethylformamide as solvent in the presence of an organic amine base such as for example triethylamine N N diisopropylethylamine N methylmorpholine N methylpiperidine or pyridine. Pyridine is particularly preferably used as base.

The reagent IV in which Q O preferably employed is 2 ethylhexyl chloroformate. The reaction takes place in this case generally in a temperature range from 20 C. to 40 C. preferably at 0 C. to 20 C.

A heating which is necessary where appropriate in process step III 1 IV V 1 to complete the ring closure to give the 5 oxo 1 2 4 oxadiazole is preferably carried out as separate reaction stage in an inert solvent such as toluene or xylene in a temperature range from 100 C. to 150 C.

Examples of inert solvents for process step VI 1 VII 1 are alcohols such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol or tert butanol ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether or other solvents such as dimethylformamide dimethyl sulfoxide N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU or N methylpyrrolidone NMP . It is likewise possible to employ mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Methanol ethanol tetrahydrofuran or mixtures thereof are preferred.

Examples of inert solvents for process step VII 1 VIII 1 are halohydrocarbons such as dichloromethane trichloromethane tetrachloromethane trichloroethane tetrachloroethane 1 2 dichloroethane or trichloroethylene ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether or hydrocarbons such as benzene xylene toluene hexane cyclohexane or petroleum fractions. It is likewise possible to employ mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Dioxane is preferably used.

The reaction VII 1 VIII 1 is generally carried out in a temperature range from 50 C. to 150 C. preferably at 80 C. to 120 C.

Process step IX 1 X 1 is carried out with usual chlorinating agents such as for example oxalyl chloride thionyl chloride or phosphoryl chloride. Oxalyl chloride is preferably employed in the presence of small amounts of dimethylformamide. The reaction generally takes place in inert solvents such as tetrahydrofuran or toluene in a temperature range from 0 C. to 120 C.

Examples of inert solvents for process step X 1 XI XII 1 are halohydrocarbons such as dichloromethane trichloromethane tetrachloromethane trichloroethane tetrachloroethane or 1 2 dichloroethane ethers such as diethyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene xylene toluene hexane cyclohexane or petroleum fractions or other solvents such as dimethylformamide dimethyl sulfoxide N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrrolidone NMP acetonitrile or else water. It is likewise possible to employ mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Tetrahydrofuran or tetrahydrofuran water mixtures are preferred.

The cyclization in process step XII 1 XIII 1 is advantageously carried out with simultaneous hydrolysis of the nitrile group. Bases such as sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide are particularly suitable for this purpose. The reaction preferably takes place in water or alcoholic solvents such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol or tert butanol or in mixtures of these alcohols with water. Water or n propanol are particularly preferred. The reaction is generally carried out in a temperature range from 50 C. to 150 C. preferably at 90 C. to 110 C.

Hydrolysis of the carboxylic esters in process step V 1 V 2 I and of the nitrites in process step VIII 1 VIII 2 I takes place by conventional methods by treating the esters and nitrites respectively in inert solvents with acids or bases and with the latter converting the initially produced salts into the free carboxylic acids by treatment with acid. The ester cleavage in the case of tert butyl esters preferably takes place with acids.

Inert solvents suitable for this purpose are water or the organic solvents usual for ester cleavage. These preferably include alcohols such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol or tert butanol or ethers such as diethyl ether tetrahydrofuran dioxane or glycol dimethyl ether or other solvents such as acetone dichlormethane dimethylformamide or dimethyl sulfoxide. It is likewise possible to employ mixtures of the solvents mentioned. In the case of a basic ester hydrolysis preferably mixtures of water with dioxane tetrahydrofuran methanol and or ethanol are employed and in the case of nitrile hydrolysis preferably water or n propanol is employed. In the case of reaction with trifluoroacetic acid preferably dichloromethane is used and in the case of reaction with hydrogen chloride preferably tetrahydrofuran diethyl ether dioxane or water is used.

Suitable bases are the usual inorganic bases. These preferably include alkali metal or alkaline earth metal hydroxides such as for example sodium lithium potassium or barium hydroxide or alkali metal or alkaline earth metal carbonates such as sodium potassium or calcium carbonate. Sodium potassium or lithium hydroxide are particularly preferred.

Suitable acids for the ester cleavage are generally sulfuric acid hydrogen chloride hydrochloric acid hydrogen bromide hydrobromic acid phosphoric acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid toluenesulfonic acid methanesulfonic acid or trifluoromethanesulfonic acid or mixtures thereof where appropriate with addition of water. Hydrogen chloride or trifluoroacetic acid are preferred in the case of the tert butyl esters and hydrochloric acid in the case of the methyl esters.

The ester cleavage generally takes place in a temperature range from 0 C. to 100 C. preferably at 20 C. to 60 C. The nitrile hydrolysis is generally carried out in a temperature range from 50 C. to 150 C. preferably at 90 C. to 110 C.

The reactions mentioned can be carried out under atmospheric elevated or reduced pressure e.g. from 0.5 to 5 bar . They are generally carried out in each case under atmospheric pressure.

The compounds of the formulae II 1 II 2 VI 1 VI 2 IX 1 and IX 2 can be prepared by the processes described in EP 0 341 551 A1 WO 01 19355 WO 01 19776 WO 01 19778 WO 01 19780 WO 02 070462 and WO 02 070510 compare also reaction schemes 1 18 hereinafter the content relating thereto in these publications is hereby expressly included as part of the disclosure.

The compounds of the formulae IV and XI are commercially available disclosed in the literature or can be prepared in a simple manner by processes disclosed in the literature.

Separation of the compounds of the invention into the corresponding enantiomers and or diastereomers can take place where appropriate depending on expediency even at the stage of the compounds II 1 II 2 V 1 V 2 VI 1 VI 2 VIII 1 VIII 2 IX 1 IX 2 or of the phenolic precursors thereof depicted in schemes 11 18 which are then reacted further in separated form in accordance with the described process sequences. Such a fractionation of the stereoisomers can be carried out by conventional methods known to the skilled person chromatographic methods or separation via diastereomeric salts are preferably used.

The preparation of the compounds of the invention can be illustrated by the following synthesis schemes 

 Abbreviations Ac acetyl ACN acetonitrile Boc O di tert butyl pyrocarbonate Bu butyl DME 1 2 dimethoxyethane DMF dimethylformamide DMSO dimethyl sulfoxide Et ethyl cat. catalyst L leaving group e.g. halogen Me methyl PCC pyridinium chlorochromate Ph phenyl THF tetrahydrofuran .

The compounds according to the invention have valuable pharmacological properties and can be used for the prevention and treatment of disorders in humans and animals.

The compounds of the present invention exhibit as particular and surprising feature advantageous pharmacokinetic properties such as for example an increased bioavailability and or a prolonged duration of action after oral administration.

The compounds according to the invention lead to vasorelaxation to an inhibition of platelet aggregation and to a reduction in blood pressure and to an increase in coronary blood flow. These effects are mediated by direct activation of soluble guanylate cyclase and an intracellular increase in cGMP.

The compounds according to the invention can therefore be employed in medicaments for the treatment of cardiovascular disorders such as for example for the treatment of high blood pressure and heart failure stable and unstable angina pectoris pulmonary hypertension peripheral and cardiac vascular disorders arrhythmias for the treatment of thromboembolic disorders and ischemias such as myocardial infarction stroke transistoric and ischemic attacks disturbances of peripheral blood flow prevention of restenosis as after thrombolysis therapies percutaneous transluminal angioplasties PTAs percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasties PTCAs bypass and for the treatment of arteriosclerosis asthmatic disorders and diseases of the urogenital system such as for example prostate hypertrophy erectile dysfunction female sexual dysfunction and incontinence osteoporosis glaucoma and gastroparesis.

The compounds according to the invention can additionally be used for the treatment of primary and secondary Raynaud s phenomenon of microcirculation impairments claudication peripheral and autonomic neuropathies diabetic microangiopathies diabetic retinopathy diabetic ulcers on the extremities CREST syndrome erythematosis onychomycosis and rheumatic disorders.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore suitable for the treatment of respiratory distress syndromes and chronic obstructive airway disorders COPD of acute and chronic renal failure and for promoting wound healing.

The compounds described in the present invention also represent active ingredients for controlling central nervous system diseases characterized by disturbances of the NO cGMP system. They are suitable in particular for improving perception concentration learning or memory after cognitive impairments like those occurring in particular in association with situations diseases syndromes such as mild cognitive impairment age associated learning and memory impairments age associated memory losses vascular dementia craniocerebral trauma stroke dementia occurring after strokes post stroke dementia post traumatic craniocerebral trauma general concentration impairments concentration impairments in children with learning and memory problems Alzheimer s disease Lewy body dementia dementia with degeneration of the frontal lobes including Pick s syndrome Parkinson s disease progressive nuclear palsy dementia with corticobasal degeneration amyolateral sclerosis ALS Huntington s disease multiple sclerosis thalamic degeneration Creutzfeld Jacob dementia HIV dementia schizophrenia with dementia or Korsakoff s psychosis. They are also suitable for the treatment of central nervous system disorders such as states of anxiety tension and depression CNS related sexual dysfunctions and sleep disturbances and for controlling pathological disturbances of the intake of food stimulants and addictive substances.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore also suitable for controlling cerebral blood flow and thus represent effective agents for controlling migraine. They are also suitable for the prophylaxis and control of the sequalae of cerebral infarctions such as stroke cerebral ischemias and craniocerebral trauma. The compounds according to the invention can likewise be employed for controlling states of pain.

In addition the compounds according to the invention have an anti inflammatory effect and can therefore be employed as anti inflammatory agents.

The present invention further relates to the use of the compounds according to the invention for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders.

The present invention further relates to the use of the compounds according to the invention for producing a medicament for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders.

The present invention further relates to a method for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders by using an effective amount of at least one of the compounds according to the invention.

The compounds according to the invention can be employed alone or if required in combination with other active ingredients. The present invention further relates to medicaments comprising at least one of the compounds according to the invention and one or more further active ingredients in particular for the treatment and or prevention of the aforementioned disorders. Examples of suitable combination active ingredients which may be preferably mentioned are 

Agents having antithrombotic activity preferably mean compounds from the group of platelet aggregation inhibitors of anticoagulants or of profibrinolytic substances.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a platelet aggregation inhibitor such as for example and preferably aspirin clopidogrel ticlopidine or dipyridamole.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thrombin inhibitor such as for example and preferably ximelagatran melagatran bivalirudin or clexane.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a GPIIb IIIa antagonist such as for example and preferably tirofiban or abciximab.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a factor Xa inhibitor such as for example and preferably BAY 59 7939 DU 176b fidexaban razaxaban fondaparinux idraparinux PMD 3112 YM 150 KFA 1982 EMD 503982 MCM 17 MLN 1021 DX 9065a DPC 906 JTV 803 SSR 126512 or SSR 128428.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with heparin or with a low molecular weight LMW heparin derivative.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a vitamin K antagonist such as for example and preferably coumarin.

Agents which lower blood pressure preferably mean compounds from the group of calcium antagonists angiotensin AII antagonists ACE inhibitors endothelin antagonists renin inhibitors alpha receptor blockers beta receptor blockers mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists and of diuretics.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a calcium antagonist such as for example and preferably nifedipine amlodipine verapamil or diltiazem.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an alpha 1 receptor blocker such as for example and preferably prazosin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a beta receptor blocker such as for example and preferably propranolol atenolol timolol pindolol alprenolol oxprenolol penbutolol bupranolol metipranolol nadolol mepindolol carazolol sotalol metoprolol betaxolol celiprolol bisoprolol carteolol esmolol labetalol carvedilol adaprolol landiolol nebivolol epanolol or bucindolol.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an angiotensin AII antagonist such as for example and preferably losartan candesartan valsartan telmisartan or embursatan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACE inhibitor such as for example and preferably enalapril captopril lisinopril ramipril delapril fosinopril quinapril perindopril or trandopril.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an endothelin antagonist such as for example and preferably bosentan darusentan ambrisentan or sitaxsentan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a renin inhibitor such as for example and preferably aliskiren SPP 600 or SPP 800.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist such as for example and preferably spironolactone or eplerenone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a diuretic such as for example and preferably furosemide.

Agents which modify lipid metabolism preferably mean compounds from the group of CETP inhibitors thyroid receptor agonists cholesterol synthesis inhibitors such as HMG CoA reductase inhibitors or squalene synthesis inhibitors of ACAT inhibitors MTP inhibitors PPAR alpha PPAR gamma and or PPAR delta agonists cholesterol absorption inhibitors polymeric bile acid adsorbents bile acid reabsorption inhibitors lipase inhibitors and of lipoprotein a antagonists.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a CETP inhibitor such as for example and preferably torcetrapib CP 529 414 JJT 705 or CETP vaccine Avant .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thyroid receptor agonist such as for example and preferably D thyroxine 3 5 3 triiodothyronine T3 CGS 23425 or axitirome CGS 26214 .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor from the class of statins such as for example and preferably lovastatin simvastatin pravastatin fluvastatin atorvastatin rosuvastatin cerivastatin or pitavastatin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a squalene synthesis inhibitor such as for example and preferably BMS 188494 or TAK 475.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACAT inhibitor such as for example and preferably avasimibe melinamide pactimibe eflucimibe or SMP 797.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an MTP inhibitor such as for example and preferably implitapide BMS 201038 R 103757 or JTT 130.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR gamma agonist such as for example and preferably pioglitazone or rosiglitazone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR delta agonist such as for example and preferably GW 501516 or BAY 68 5042.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a cholesterol absorption inhibitor such as for example and preferably ezetimibe tiqueside or pamaqueside.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipase inhibitor such as for example and preferably orlistat.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a polymeric bile acid adsorbent such as for example and preferably cholestyramine colestipol colesolvam CholestaGel or colestimide.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a bile acid reabsorption inhibitor such as for example and preferably ASBT IBAT inhibitors such as for example AZD 7806 S 8921 AK 105 BARI 1741 SC 435 or SC 635.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipoprotein a antagonist such as for example and preferably gemcabene calcium CI 1027 or nicotinic acid.

The present invention further relates to medicaments which comprise at least one compound according to the invention normally together with one or more inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients and to the use thereof for the aforementioned purposes.

The compounds according to the invention can act systemically and or locally. For this purpose they can be administered in a suitable way such as for example by the oral parenteral pulmonal nasal sublingual lingual buccal rectal dermal transdermal conjunctival otic route or as implant or stent.

The compounds according to the invention can be administered in administration forms suitable for these administration routes.

Suitable for oral administration are administration forms which function according to the prior art and deliver the compounds according to the invention rapidly and or in modified fashion and which contain the compounds according to the invention in crystalline and or amorphized and or dissolved form such as for example tablets uncoated or coated tablets for example having enteric coatings or coatings which are insoluble or dissolve with a delay and control the release of the compound according to the invention tablets which disintegrate rapidly in the mouth or films wafers films lyophilisates capsules for example hard or soft gelatin capsules sugar coated tablets granules pellets powders emulsions suspensions aerosols or solutions.

Parenteral administration can take place with avoidance of an absorption step e.g. intravenous intraarterial intracardiac intraspinal or intralumbar or with inclusion of an absorption e.g. intramuscular subcutaneous intracutaneous percutaneous or intraperitoneal . Administration forms suitable for parenteral administration are inter alia preparations for injection and infusion in the form of solutions suspensions emulsions lyophilisates or sterile powders.

Suitable for the other administration routes are for example pharmaceutical forms for inhalation inter alia powder inhalers nebulizers nasal drops solutions or sprays tablets for lingual sublingual or buccal administration films wafers or capsules suppositories preparations for the ears or eyes vaginal capsules aqueous suspensions lotions shaking mixtures lipophilic suspensions ointments creams transdermal therapeutic systems e.g. patches milk pastes foams dusting powders implants or stents.

The compounds according to the invention can be converted into the stated administration forms. This can take place in a manner known per se by mixing with inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients. These excipients include inter alia carriers for example microcrystalline cellulose lactose mannitol solvents e.g. liquid polyethylene glycols emulsifiers and dispersants or wetting agents for example sodium dodecyl sulfate polyoxysorbitan oleate binders for example polyvinylpyrrolidone synthetic and natural polymers for example albumin stabilizers e.g. antioxidants such as for example ascorbic acid colorants e.g. inorganic pigments such as for example iron oxides and masking flavors and or odors.

It has generally proved advantageous to administer on parenteral administration amounts of about 0.001 to 1 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 0.5 mg kg of body weight to achieve effective results and on oral administration the dosage is about 0.01 to 100 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 20 mg kg and very particularly preferably 0.1 to 10 mg kg of body weight.

It may nevertheless be necessary where appropriate to deviate from the stated amounts in particular as a function of the body weight route of administration individual response to the active ingredient nature of the preparation and time or interval over which administration takes place. Thus it may be sufficient in some cases to make do with less than the aforementioned minimum amount whereas in other cases the stated upper limit must be exceeded. It may in the event of administration of larger amounts be advisable to divide these into a plurality of individual doses over the day.

The following exemplary embodiments illustrate the invention. The invention is not restricted to the examples.

The percentage data in the following tests and examples are unless indicated otherwise percentages by weight parts are parts by weight. Solvent ratios dilution ratios and concentration data for the liquid liquid solutions are in each case based on volume.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type HP 1100 series UV DAD column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type Waters Alliance 2795 column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. TV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Micromass Platform LCZ with HPLC Agilent Series 1100 column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Micromass Quattro LCZ with HPLC Agilent Series 1100 column Phenomenex Synergi 2 Hydro RP Mercury 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 mil min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 208 400 nm.

Instrument Micromass Platform LCZ with HPLC Agilent Series 1100 column Thermo Hypersil GOLD 3 20 mm 4 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 100 A 0.2 min 100 A 2.9 min 30 A 3.1 min 10 A 5.5 min 10 A oven 50 C. flow rate 0.8 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type HP 1100 series UV DAD column Phenomenex Gemini 3 30 mm 3000 mm eluent A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid eluent B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate 0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Micromass GCT GC6890 column Restek RTX 35MS 30 m 250 m 0.25 m constant helium flow 0.88 ml min oven 60 C. inlet 250 C. gradient 60 C. hold for 0.30 min 50 C. min 120 C. 16 C. min 250 C. 30 C. min 300 C. hold for 1.7 min .

Instrument Micromass GCT GC6890 column Restek RTX 35 MS 30 m 250 m 0.25 m constant helium flow 0.88 ml min oven 60 C. inlet 250 C. gradient 60 C. hold for 0.30 min 50 C. min 120 C. 16 C. min 250 C. 30 C. min 300 C. hold for 8.7 min .

Instrument HP 1100 with DAD detection column Kromasil 100 RP 18 60 mm 2.1 mm 3.5 m eluent A 5 ml of HClO 70 l of water eluent B acetonitrile gradient 0 min 2 B 0.5 min 2 B 4.5 min 90 B 9 min 90 B 9.2 min 2 B 10 min 2 B flow rate 0.75 ml min column temperature 30 C. UV detection 210 nm. Method 2 HPLC 

Instrument HP 1100 with DAD detection column Kromasil 100 RP 18 60 mm 2.1 mm 3.5 m eluent A 5 ml of HClO 70 l of water eluent B acetonitrile gradient 0 min 2 B 0.5 min 2 B 4.5 min 90 B 15 min 90 B 15.2 min 2 B 16 min 2 B flow rate 0.75 ml min column temperature 30 C. UV detection 210 nm.

A solution of 92.08 g 0.597 mol of 2 methoxyphenethylamine and 98 g 0.597 mol of methyl 4 formylbenzoate in 2 l of ethanol is heated to reflux for 2 hours. The solvent is then stripped off in vacuo and the resulting residue is dissolved in 1 l of methanol. A total of 46.14 g 1.220 mol of solid sodium borohydride is added in portions. After stirring at room temperature for two hours the mixture is poured into water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic extract is washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is removed in vacuo. 167.7 g 0.559 mol 77 yield of a colorless oil are obtained and are employed in the next stage without further purification.

661.4 ml 0.66 mol of a 1 M solution of boron tribromide in dichloromethane are added to a solution of 60 g 0.2 mol of methyl 4 2 2 methoxyphenyl ethyl aminomethyl benzoate from Example 1A in 200 ml of dichloromethane at 0 C. Stirring is continued at 0 C. for one hour. Then 300 ml of methanol are added and the mixture is heated to reflux for 18 hours. The product precipitates on cooling and is filtered off. Further product is obtained after concentrating the mother liquor. The collected product fractions are washed with diethyl ether. 45.04 g 0.16 mol 56 yield of a white crystalline solid are obtained.

8.95 g 41.03 mmol of di tert butyl dicarbonate dissolved in 200 ml of THF are added to a solution of 11.15 g 39.08 mmol of methyl 4 2 2 hydroxyphenyl ethyl aminomethyl benzoate hydrobromide from Example 2A and 10.89 ml 78.15 mmol of triethylamine in 300 ml of THF at 0 C. After stirring at room temperature for 12 hours the solvent is stripped off in vacuo and the resulting residue is taken up in dichloromethane and washed with half saturated ammonium chloride solution. Drying over sodium sulfate is followed by filtration and concentration. 12.21 g 31.7 mmol 82 yield of a colorless oil are obtained and are employed in the next stage without further purification.

A solution of 5 g 12.87 mmol of methyl 4 tert butoxycarbonyl 2 2 hydroxyphenyl ethyl aminomethyl benzoate from Example 3A in 100 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 3.89 g 15.57 mmol of 4 bromobenzyl bromide and 2.69 g 19.46 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated to reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The resulting organic phase is concentrated. The crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 20 1 10 1 . 6.88 g 12.4 mmol 89 yield of a solid are obtained.

A solution of 4.2 g 7.57 mmol of methyl 4 2 2 4 bromobenzyloxy phenyl ethyl tert butoxycarbonylamino methyl benzoate from Example 4A in 15 ml of dichloromethane is stirred with 15 ml of trifluoroacetic acid at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction solution is then neutralized with aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and the organic phase is separated off and dried over sodium sulfate. Filtration is followed by removal of the solvent in vacuo. 3.2 g 7.04 mmol 92 yield of a colorless oil are obtained which are employed in the next stage without further purification.

13.10 ml 13.10 mmol of borane THF complex are slowly added dropwise to a solution of 2 g 8.73 mmol of 4 2 bromoethyl benzoic acid in 50 ml of dry THF at 10 C. After warming to room temperature the mixture is stirred for one hour. After the reaction is complete the mixture is mixed with saturated ammonium chloride solution and taken up in ethyl acetate and the organic phase is separated off and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is removed in vacuo. 1.67 g 7.76 mmol 79 yield of a colorless oil are obtained and are employed in the next stage without further purification.

A solution of 200 mg 0.93 mmol of 4 2 bromoethyl phenyl methanol from Example 6A in 20 ml of dichloromethane is mixed with 240.5 mg 1.12 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC and stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction solution is then mixed with about 2 g of silica gel and concentrated to dryness. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . 183 mg 0.85 mmol 82 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

42.26 ml 0.385 mol of titanium tetrachloride are added over the course of 10 min to a solution of 44.4 g 0.38 mol of dichloromethyl methyl ether in 230 ml of dichloromethane while cooling 4 5 C. and the mixture is stirred for 1 hour. Then 64.89 g 0.34 mol of 2 bromoethylbenzene dissolved in 24 ml of dichloromethane are metered into the reaction solution over the course of 50 min at 5 7 C. The reaction solution is then warmed slowly to room temperature and the mixture is stirred overnight. After reaction is complete 140 ml of water are very cautiously added dropwise over the course of 1 hour caution initially endothermic reaction through evolution of gas then exothermic reaction up to 30 C. cooling necessary . The reaction solution is extracted three times with dichloromethane and the combined organic phases are washed with 170 ml of water and neutralized with 115 ml of sodium bicarbonate solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is removed in vacuo. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane petroleum ether 1 2 1 1 . 29.3 g 0.14 mol 37 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 29.3 g 0.14 mol of 4 2 bromoethyl benzaldehyde from Example 7A in 112.4 ml of formic acid is mixed with 12.42 g 0.18 mol of hydroxylamine hydrochloride and heated to reflux for 2 hours. After slow cooling to room temperature 670 ml of water are added and the reaction mixture is slowly neutralized with 6 N sodium hydroxide solution while cooling. The mixture is then extracted three times with methyl tert butyl ether. The combined organic phases are dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated to dryness. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane . 21.3 g 0.10 mol 74 yield of a yellowish solid are obtained.

200 mg 0.44 mmol of methyl 4 2 2 4 bromobenzyloxy phenyl ethylaminomethyl benzoate from Example 5A 101 mg 0.48 mmol of 4 2 bromoethyl benzonitrile and 51.4 mg 0.48 mmol of sodium carbonate are heated in 5 ml of acetonitrile to reflux for 5 hours. A further 101 mg 0.48 mmol of 4 2 bromoethyl benzonitrile are then added and the reaction solution is stirred further under reflux overnight. After the reaction solution has cooled the mixture is concentrated to dryness and the residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution. Drying over sodium sulfate is followed by filtration and concentration. The crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 183 mg 0.31 mmol 69 yield of a pale yellow oil are obtained.

200 mg 0.34 mmol of methyl 4 2 2 4 bromobenzyloxy phenyl ethyl 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl aminomethyl benzoate from Example 9A are dissolved in 2 ml of 1 2 dimethoxyethane and under argon 78 mg 0.41 mmol of 4 trifluoromethylphenylboronic acid 2.5 mg of bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride and 0.38 ml of a 2 M aqueous sodium carbonate solution are added. The reaction mixture is then stirred under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is subsequently cooled filtered through 1 g of Extrelut washed with dichloromethane and concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 158 mg 0.24 mmol 71 yield of a colorless oil are obtained.

A solution of 80.34 mg 1.16 mmol of hydroxylamine hydrochloride in 5 ml of DMSO is mixed with 0.16 ml 1.16 mmol of triethylamine and stirred at room temperature for 10 min. The resulting precipitate is filtered off. Subsequently 150 mg 0.23 mmol of methyl 4 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 2 2 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 ylmethoxy phenyl ethylamino methyl benzoate from Example 10A are metered into the filtrate. The reaction solution is stirred at 75 C. for 12 hours. After complete conversion and cooling 10 ml of water are added to the reaction solution and after extraction three times with ethyl acetate the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution. The organic phase is then dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness. 162 mg of a colorless oil are obtained and are reacted further immediately without further purification.

The oil obtained above is dissolved in 10 ml of DMF and 0.02 ml 0.26 mmol of pyridine is added. The solution is then cooled to 0 C. and 46 mg 0.24 mmol of 2 ethylhexyl chloroformate are slowly added. The mixture is stirred at 0 C. for about 30 min and then taken up in water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness. The resulting residue is taken up 20 ml of xylene and heated to reflux for 2 hours. After reaction is complete the reaction solution is cooled and concentrated to dryness. The crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 32.7 mg 0.05 mmol 19 yield of a colorless oil are obtained.

14.42 g 0.36 mol of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 56.7 g 0.3 mol of diallyl malonate in 375 ml of dioxane and 75 ml of THF at 0 C. After warming to room temperature the mixture is stirred at 40 C. for 1 hour. Subsequently 111.88 g 0.6 mol of methyl 4 chloromethylbenzoate dissolved in 375 ml of dioxane are slowly added dropwise at 40 C. and the reaction solution is stirred at 110 C. overnight. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture is added to 1200 ml of water. Care must be taken during this that the pH is 

6.70 g 0.17 mol of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 55.71 g 0.17 mol of diallyl 2 4 methoxycarbonylbenzyl malonate from Example 12A in 34 ml of DMF at 0 C. The reaction solution is then allowed to reach room temperature and is stirred for 1 hour. The reaction solution is then cooled to 0 C. 42.98 g 0.20 mol of 4 2 bromoethyl benzonitrile from Example 8A in 21 ml of DMF are added and the mixture is stirred at this temperature for 30 min. The mixture is subsequently stirred at room temperature overnight. Water is added dropwise to the reaction mixture which is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography mobile phase petroleum ether ethyl acetate 3 1 3 kg of silica gel . 36 g 0.078 mol 46 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 41.8 ml 0.3 mol of triethylamine and 8.6 ml 0.23 mol of formic acid in 500 ml of dioxane is added to a solution of 43.5 g 0.09 mol of diallyl 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 2 4 methoxycarbonylbenzyl malonate from Example 13A 1.67 g 0.01 mol of triphenylphosphine and 410 mg of palladium acetate in 505 ml of dioxane at room temperature. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 100 C. for 2 hours. After conversion is complete the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 50 1 . 25 g 0.074 mol 82 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

24.28 ml of a 1 M borane THF complex solution 24.28 mmol are added dropwise to a solution of 5.32 g 77 purity 12.14 mmol of methyl 4 2 carboxy 4 4 cyanophenyl butyl benzoate from Example 14A in 40 ml of THF at 15 C. and the solution is stirred at this temperature for 4 h. After reaction is complete saturated sodium bicarbonate solution is added to the reaction mixture and the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in dichloromethane dried over sodium sulfate and after filtration again freed of solvent. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . 2.25 g 55 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 5.7 g 17.63 mmol of methyl 4 4 4 cyanophenyl 2 hydroxymethylbutyl benzoate from Example 15A in 250 ml of dichloromethane is mixed with 4.56 g 21.15 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC and stirred at room temperature for 5 hours. After conversion is complete about 10 g of silica gel are added and the solvent is removed to dryness in vacuo. The residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 . 4.16 g 12.94 mmol 73 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

9.39 ml 15.02 mmol of a 1.6 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added to a solution of 2.459 g 5.36 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide in 65 ml of anhydrous THF at 0 C. Then at this temperature 1.744 g 5.36 mmol of methyl 4 4 4 cyanophenyl 2 formylbutyl benzoate from Example 16A dissolved in 65 ml of THF are slowly metered in. After warming to room temperature the reaction solution is stirred for 12 hours and then after addition of some water concentrated to dryness. The resulting residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . 1.44 g 3.50 mmol 65 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 230 mg 0.56 mmol of methyl E 4 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 enyl benzoate from Example 17A in 5 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 209 mg 0.84 mmol of 4 bromobenzyl bromide and 116 mg 0.84 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated to reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The resulting organic phase is concentrated. The crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane . 286 mg 0.49 mmol 88 yield of a solid are obtained.

270 mg 0.47 mmol of methyl E 4 4 2 4 bromobenzyloxy phenyl 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl but 3 enylbenzoate from Example 18A are dissolved in 3 ml of 1 2 dimethoxyethane and under argon 106 mg 0.56 mmol of 4 trifluoromethylphenylboronic acid 3.3 mg of bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride and 0.51 ml of a 2 M solution of sodium carbonate in water are added. The reaction mixture is then stirred under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is subsequently cooled filtered through 1 g of Extrelut washed with dichloromethane and concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 175 mg 0.27 mmol 58 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 96.8 mg 1.39 mmol of hydroxylamine hydrochloride in 18 ml of DMSO is mixed with 0.19 ml 1.39 mmol of triethylamine and stirred at room temperature for 10 min. The resulting precipitate is filtered off. Subsequently 180 mg 0.28 mmol of methyl E 4 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 ylmethoxy phenyl but 3 enylbenzoate from Example 19A are metered into the filtrate. The reaction solution is then stirred at 75 C. for 12 hours. After complete conversion and cooling 10 ml of water are added to the reaction solution which is extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution. The organic phase is then dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness. 213 mg of a colorless oil are obtained and are reacted further immediately without further purification.

The oil obtained above is dissolved in 8 ml of DMF and 0.02 ml 0.29 mmol of pyridine is added. The solution is then cooled to 0 C. and 47.1 mg 0.26 mmol of 2 ethylhexyl chloroformate are slowly added. The mixture is stirred at 0 C. for about 30 min taken up in water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness. The resulting residue is taken up in 8 ml of xylene and heated to reflux for 4 hours. After reaction is complete the reaction solution is cooled and concentrated to dryness. The crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 110 mg 0.15 mmol 57 yield of a colorless oil are obtained.

7 g 30.56 mmol of ethyl 4 bromobenzoate are dissolved in 60 ml of 1 2 dimethoxyethane and under argon 6.96 g 36.67 mmol of 4 trifluoromethylphenylboronic acid 271 mg of bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride and 40.7 ml of a 2 M solution of sodium carbonate in water are added. The reaction mixture is then heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is subsequently cooled filtered through 1 g of Extrelut washed with dichloromethane and concentrated. The crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane dichloromethane 2 1 . 6.31 g 21.4 mmol 70 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

12.73 ml 12.73 mmol of a 1 M solution of lithium aluminum hydride in THF are added dropwise to a solution of 6.24 g 21.21 mmol of ethyl 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 carboxylate from Example 21A in 60 ml of dry THF at 0 C. After the reaction is complete the mixture is mixed with saturated ammonium chloride solution and taken up in ethyl acetate and the organic phase is separated off and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is removed in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 . 5.1 g 20.21 mmol 95 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 5.0 g 19.82 mmol of 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 yl methanol from Example 22A in 40 ml of chloroform is mixed with 2.89 ml 39.65 mmol of thionyl chloride dissolved in 10 ml of chloroform and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. After reaction is complete the reaction mixture is concentrated to dryness and the residue is taken up ethyl acetate and washed with saturated sodium carbonate solution. The organic phase is subsequently separated off dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated after filtration. The crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 9 1 . 5.26 g 19.43 mmol 98 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 4.59 g 36.94 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl alcohol in 200 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 10 g 36.94 mmol of 4 chloromethyl 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl from Example 23A and 6.13 g 44.33 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated to reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The resulting organic phase is concentrated. The crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 . 11.8 g 32.92 mmol 89 yield of a solid are obtained.

A solution of 11.7 g 32.65 mmol of 2 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 ylmethoxy phenyl methanol from Example 24A in 100 ml of acetonitrile is mixed with 10.64 g 31.02 mmol of triphenylphosphonium hydrobromide and heated to reflux for 3 hours. The reaction solution is then concentrated to dryness and the resulting oil is taken up and triturated in diethyl ether. The product crystallizes as a white solid during this. After filtration the solid is dried in a oven at 50 C. overnight. 20.5 g 30 mmol 92 yield of crystalline product are obtained.

A solution of 416.7 ml 1.83 mol 48 strength hydrobromic acid is mixed with 50 g 0.304 mol of 5 phenylpentan 1 ol at 0 C. and stirred at 0 C. for 30 min. The reaction solution is then stirred at 100 C. for 12 hours. After reaction is complete the mixture is cooled to room temperature and 200 ml of ethyl acetate are added. After extraction the organic phase is separated off washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the filtrate is is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane . 59.4 g 0.26 mol 86 yield of a colorless liquid are obtained.

A solution of 10 g 80.56 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl alcohol in 200 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 27.45 g 120.83 mmol of 5 bromopentyl benzene from Example 26A and 12.25 g 88.61 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The resulting organic phase is concentrated. The crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 18.7 g 81 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 18.7 g 69.16 mmol of 2 5 phenylpentyloxy phenyl methanol from Example 27A in 120 ml of acetonitrile is mixed with 22.55 g 65.71 mmol of triphenylphosphonium hydrobromide and heated to reflux for three hours. The reaction solution is then concentrated to dryness. 36.6 g 61.45 mmol 83 yield of crystalline product are obtained and are reacted without further purification.

A solution of 10 g 49.26 mmol of 2 bromo 5 fluorobenzaldehyde in 200 ml of dry DMF is mixed with 7.27 g 54.18 mmol of 4 methoxystyrene 1.5 g 4.93 mmol of tri 2 tolylphosphine 330 mg 1.48 mmol of palladium II acetate and 10.3 ml 73.89 mmol of triethylamine under argon and stirred at 100 C. for 12 hours. After reaction is complete the reaction solution is cooled to room temperature and concentrated to dryness. The resulting residue is taken up in 100 ml of water and extracted three times with 50 ml of diethyl ether each time. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solution is concentrated to dryness and the residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 7.79 g 55 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

1.73 g 45.60 mmol of sodium borohydride are added in portions to a solution of 7.79 g 30.40 mmol of E 5 fluoro 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl vinyl benzaldehyde from Example 29A in 500 ml of methanol at 0 C. and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. After reaction is complete the mixture is concentrated to dryness and then taken up in water and dichloromethane. The aqueous phase is then extracted twice more with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated to dryness. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 1 1 . 6.8 g 85 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A mixture of 6.8 g 26.33 mmol of E 5 fluoro 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl vinyl phenylmethanol from Example 30A and 0.5 g of palladium on carbon 10 in 50 ml of methanol and 250 ml of ethanol is hydrogenated under atmospheric pressure at room temperature for 1 hour. After reaction has stopped the mixture is filtered through kieselguhr and the filtrate is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 1 1 . 5.95 g 87 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 5.95 g 22.86 mmol of 5 fluoro 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl phenylmethanol from Example 31A in 130 ml of acetonitrile is mixed with 7.45 g 21.71 mmol of triphenylphosphonium hydrobromide and heated to reflux for 3 hours. The reaction solution is then concentrated to dryness and the resulting oil is taken up and triturated in diethyl ether. The product crystallizes as a white solid during this. After filtration the solid is dried in a drying oven at 50 C. overnight. 11.5 g 77 yield of crystalline product are obtained.

With exclusion of oxygen a solution of 14.0 g 67.63 mmol of 1 bromo 4 difluoromethyl benzene CAS 51776 71 7 and 25.3 g 142 mmol of N bromosuccinimide NBS in 190 ml of tetrachloromethane is irradiated with a sun lamp. During this the solvent reaches its boiling point. It is irradiated under reflux for 24 hours. The mixture is then allowed to cool to room temperature and precipitated succinimide is filtered off. The filtrate is again mixed with 25 g of NBS and irradiated once more with exclusion of oxygen under reflux for 24 hours. Cooling is followed by filtration again and the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. 18 g of an orange colored oil are obtained as crude product which is purified further by vacuum distillation at 13 mmHg. 12.7 g 44.4 mmol 66 yield of a colorless oil are obtained.

With exclusion of oxygen 27.1 g 159.28 mmol of methyl 5 fluoro 2 hydroxybenzoate are introduced into 500 ml of dry THF and cooled to 0 C. Then while cooling 238 ml 238 mmol of a 1 M solution of lithium aluminum hydride in THF are slowly added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour and then at RT overnight. After reaction is complete the mixture is mixed with saturated ammonium chloride solution and taken up in methylene chloride and the organic phase is separated off and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is removed in vacuo. The crude product is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 20 1 . 18.0 g 126.6 mmol 79 yield of a colorless solid are isolated.

A solution of 8 g 36.53 mmol of 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzoic acid in 44 ml of methanol is mixed with 0.46 ml 3.65 mmol of chlorotrimethylsilane and heated to reflux for 12 h. The mixture is then concentrated and the residue is taken up in cyclohexane and filtered through silica gel. 4.49 g 19.25 mmol 52 yield of a white solid are obtained.

1.45 g 6.22 mmol of methyl 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzoate from Example 35A are dissolved in 15 ml of 1 2 dimethoxyethane and under argon 1.13 g 7.47 mmol of 4 methoxybenzeneboronic acid 80 mg 0.11 mmol of bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride and 7 ml of a 2 M solution of sodium carbonate in water are added. The reaction mixture is then stirred under reflux for 12 h. The mixture is subsequently cooled filtered through 10 g of Extrelut washed with dichloromethane and concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 2 1 . 1.36 g 5.23 mmol 84 yield of a white solid are obtained.

A solution of 1.36 g 5.23 mmol of methyl 3 fluoro 4 methoxy 1 1 biphenyl 4 carboxylate from Example 36A in 10 ml of anhydrous THF is added dropwise to 3.14 ml 3.14 mmol of a 1 M solution of lithium aluminum hydride in anhydrous THF at 0 C. The mixture is stirred at 0 C. for 2 h. Then 10 ml of saturated ammonium chloride solution are cautiously added and after dilution with ethyl acetate the organic phase is separated off. The organic phase is washed successively with water and saturated sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate and after filtration freed of solvent. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 . 914 mg 3.94 mmol 73 yield of the title compound are obtained.

0.54 ml 7.45 mmol of thionyl chloride dissolved in 2 ml of chloroform is slowly added to a solution of 864 mg 3.72 mmol of 3 fluoro 4 methoxy 1 1 biphenyl 4 yl methanol from Example 37A in 3 ml of chloroform and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 12 h. The mixture is then concentrated taken up in ethyl acetate and washed with water and twice with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. After drying over magnesium sulfate filtration and concentration the product is purified by flash chromatography silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 100 1 . 511 mg 2.04 mmol 55 yield of a colorless oil are obtained.

A suspension of 1.17 g 8.23 mmol of 4 fluoro 2 hydroxymethyl phenol from Example 34A 2.59 g 12.63 mmol of 1 bromo 4 bromo difluoro methyl benzene from Example 33A and 1.25 g 9.06 mmol of potassium carbonate in 10 ml of 2 propanol is heated to reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is suspended in methylene chloride absorbed on silica gel dried in vacuo and purified by chromatography mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 then 100 ethyl acetate . 1.02 g 2.95 mmol 35 yield of the title compound are obtained.

473 mg 1.36 mmol of 2 4 bromophenyl difluoro methoxy 5 fluorophenylmethanol from Example 39A are dissolved in 8 ml of 1 2 dimethoxyethane and under argon 362.6 mg 1.91 mmol of 4 trifluoromethylphenylboronic acid 67 mg of bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride and 1.5 ml of a 2 M solution of sodium carbonate in water are added. The reaction mixture is then stirred under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is subsequently cooled filtered through 5 g of Celite washed with dichloromethane and concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by silica gel chromatography mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 532 mg 1.29 mmol 90 purity 85 yield of a colorless oil are obtained.

220 mg 0.53 mmol of 2 difluoro 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 4 yl methoxy 5 fluorophenyl methanol from Example 40A 154 mg 0.59 mmol of triphenylphosphine and 194.6 mg 0.59 mmol tetrabromomethane are stirred in 5 ml dichloromethane at RT for 12 hours. 2 g of silica gel are added to the reaction mixture and the mixture is then dried in vacuo and purified by silica gel chromatography mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 217 mg 0.46 mmol 95 purity 81 yield of a solid are isolated.

217 mg 0.46 mmol of 2 bromomethyl 4 fluorophenyl difluoro 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 4 yl methyl ether from Example 41A and 148 mg 0.57 mmol of triphenylphosphine are stirred in 5 ml of THF at RT for 12 hours. The reaction mixture is concentrated and the residue is washed with diethyl ether and n hexane. The crude product is employed without further purification in the subsequent stage.

10.0 g 58 mmol of methyl 5 fluoro 2 hydroxybenzoate CAS 391 92 4 13.3 g 64.5 mmol of 2 chlorobenzyl bromide CAS 611 17 6 40.6 g 293 mmol of potassium carbonate and 14.6 g 88 mmol of potassium iodide are suspended in 50 ml of acetone and the mixture is stirred under reflux for 12 h. The solvent is distilled out in vacuo and the residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and washed twice each with 10 strength sodium hydroxide solution with 1 N hydrochloric acid and with water. Drying over magnesium sulfate filtration and washing with ethyl acetate are followed by concentration. The residue is stirred with petroleum ether and the solid is filtered off with suction and dried on a clay dish. 10.0 g 33.9 mmol 59 of theory of the title compound are isolated.

10.0 g 34 mmol of methyl 2 2 chlorobenzyloxy 5 fluorobenzoate are dissolved in 80 ml of methanol and 40 ml of 40 strength sodium hydroxide solution and stirred at RT for 12 h. The solvent is distilled out in vacuo water is added to the residue until it has all dissolved and the solution is then extracted with ethyl acetate. The aqueous phase is acidified with hydrochloric acid and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over magnesium sulfate filtered washed with ethyl acetate and concentrated. The residue is mixed with petroleum ether and the crystals which have separated out are filtered off with suction and dried on a clay dish. 6.00 g 21.3 mmol 63 of theory of the title compound are isolated.

5.50 g 20 mmol of 2 2 chlorobenzyloxy 5 fluorobenzoic acid are dissolved in 25 ml of THF heated to reflux and then 20 ml of 1 M borane dimethyl sulfide complex are added dropwise. The reaction solution is then cooled to room temperature and stirred at this temperature for 1 h. The solvent is distilled out in vacuo and water is added to the residue. Acidification is then carried out cautiously copious gas evolution with 1 N hydrochloric acid. 1 N sodium hydroxide solution is then added to make slightly basic and the aqueous phase is extracted three times with dichloromethane. The organic phases are dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and washed with dichloromethane and the filtrate is concentrated. Petroleum ether is added to the residue and the crystals which have separated out are filtered off with suction and dried on a clay dish. 3.65 g 13.6 mmol 68 of theory of the title compound are isolated.

4.60 g 17 mmol of 2 2 chlorobenzyloxy 5 fluorophenyl methanol are dissolved in 10 ml of acetonitrile 5.62 g 16 mmol of triphenylphosphine hydrobromide are added and the suspension is stirred under reflux for 12 h. A further 2.80 g 8 mmol of triphenylphosphine hydrobromide are added and the mixture is stirred under reflux for a further 3 h. The solvent is mostly distilled out in vacuo and the crystals which have separated out are stirred with petroleum ether filtered off with suction and dried on a clay dish. 9.82 g 15.7 mmol 92 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 7.50 g 44.08 mmol of methyl 5 fluoro 2 hydroxybenzoate in 40 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 9.44 g 48.49 mmol of 2 trifluoromethylbenzyl chloride and 18.28 g 132.25 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated under reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then cooled filtered washed with dichloromethane and concentrated and the residue is purified by chromatography silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 . 9.18 g 28 mmol 89 purity 56 yield of the title compound are obtained.

The title compound is prepared in 72 yield from methyl 5 fluoro 2 2 trifluoromethyl benzyl oxybenzoate Example 47A in analogy to 2 2 chlorobenzyloxy 5 fluorophenyl methanol Example 45A .

The title compound is prepared in 80 yield from 5 fluoro 2 2 trifluoromethyl benzyl oxy phenyl methanol Example 48A in analogy to 2 bromomethyl 4 fluorophenyl difluoro 4 trifluoromethyl biphenyl 4 yl methyl ether Example 41A .

The title compound is prepared from 2 bromomethyl 4 fluoro 1 2 trifluoromethyl benzyl oxybenzene Example 49A in analogy to Example 42A.

4.44 g 26 mmol of methyl 5 fluoro 2 hydroxybenzoate CAS 391 92 4 5.25 g 28.7 mmol of 4 tert butylbenzyl chloride CAS 19692 45 6 18.0 g 130 mmol of potassium carbonate and 6.5 g 39.2 mmol of potassium iodide are dissolved in 25 ml of acetone and stirred under reflux for 12 h. The solvent is distilled out in vacuo and the residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and washed once with 10 strength sodium hydroxide solution and three times with 1 N hydrochloric acid. The solution is dried over sodium sulfate filtered washed with ethyl acetate and concentrated. 8.36 g 26 mmol 100 of theory of the title compound are isolated.

8.0 g 25 mmol of methyl 2 4 tert butylbenzyloxy 5 fluorobenzoate are dissolved in 64 ml of methanol and 32 ml of 40 strength sodium hydroxide solution and stirred under reflux for 12 h. The crystals which have separated out are filtered off with suction washed with water 1 N hydrochloric acid and petroleum ether and dried on a clay dish. 7.10 g 23.5 mmol 94 of theory of the title compound are isolated.

6.65 g 22 mmol of 2 4 tert butylbenzyloxy 5 fluorobenzoic acid are suspended in 25 ml of THF and cooled to 0 C. 2.4 ml 22 mmol of N methylmorpholine and 2.1 ml 22 mmol of ethyl chloroformate are added and the solution is stirred at room temperature for 15 min. 2.50 g 66 mmol of sodium borohydride are added and after 3 h methanol is added until gas evolution has subsided. The mixture is acidified with 1 N hydrochloric acid and concentrated in vacuo and the residue is taken up in ethyl acetate. The organic phase is washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and then dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent is distilled out in vacuo and the residue is chromatographed on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 3.52 g 12.2 mmol 55 of theory of the title compound are isolated.

5.80 g 20 mmol of 2 4 tert butylbenzyloxy 5 fluorophenyl methanol are dissolved in 70 ml of acetonitrile 6.56 g 19.5 mmol of triphenylphosphine hydrobromide are added and the suspension is stirred under reflux for 24 h. The solvent is mostly distilled out in vacuo and the crystals which have separated out are stirred with diethyl ether filtered off with suction washed with petroleum ether and dried on a clay dish. The resulting crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 2.64 g 4.3 mmol 21 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

3.0 g 14.7 mmol of 4 trifluoromethylphenylacetic acid are introduced into 30 ml of abs. THF at 0 C. A 1 M solution of 557.8 mg 14.7 mmol of lithium aluminum hydride in 14.7 ml of THF is added dropwise and the solution is stirred at room temperature until reaction is complete. The mixture is added to ice acidified with hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is concentrated and the crude product is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 6 1 . 2 g 92 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

1.79 g 10.5 mmol of methyl 5 fluorosalicylate 20 g 10.5 mmol of 2 4 trifluoromethylphenyl ethanol and 2.76 g 10.5 mmol of triphenylphosphine are introduced into 50 ml of THF and at 0 C. a solution of 1.83 g 10.5 mmol of diethyl azodicarboxylate in 10 ml of THF is added dropwise. The mixture is stirred at RT overnight and then the volatile components are removed in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 7 1 . 2.09 g 58 yield of the title compound are obtained.

2.0 g 5.84 mmol of methyl 5 fluoro 2 2 4 trifluoromethylphenyl ethoxy benzoate are introduced into 25 ml of THF. At 0 C. 4.38 ml 4.38 mmol of a 1 M lithium aluminum hydride solution in THF are added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at RT until reaction is complete. The mixture is added to ice water acidified with hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. All the volatile components are removed in vacuo and the crude product is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 . 1.7 g 82 yield of the title compound are obtained.

1.7 g 5.41 mmol of 5 fluoro 2 2 4 trifluoromethylphenyl ethoxy phenylmethanol and 1.76 g 5.14 mmol of triphenylphosphonium hydrobromide are heated under reflux in 20 ml of acetonitrile for three hours. A first product fraction is crystallized at 20 C. The mother liquor is concentrated the residue is dissolved in dichloromethane and a second fraction is crystallized with diethyl ether. A total of 2.71 g 76 yield of the title compound is obtained.

4.12 g 24.2 mmol of methyl 3 fluorosalicylate CAS 391 924 are dissolved in 100 ml of acetone 10.0 g 72.6 mmol of potassium carbonate 6.02 g 36.3 mmol of potassium iodide and 7.00 g 26.6 mmol of 1 3 bromoprop 1 ynyl 4 trifluoromethylbenzene Beilstein Record No. 7919066 are added and the mixture is stirred under reflux for 2.5 h. The solvent is distilled out in vacuo and the residue is taken up in ethyl acetate. The organic phase is washed with water and dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent is distilled out in vacuo and the residue is chromatographed on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 20 1 5 1 . 4.63 g 13.1 mmol 49 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

100 mg 0.28 mmol of methyl 5 fluoro 2 3 4 trifluoromethylphenyl prop 2 ynyloxy benzoate are dissolved in 2 ml of methanol and 2 ml of water and 20.3 mg 0.85 mmol of lithium hydroxide are added. After stirring at room temperature for 12 h the crystals which have separated out are filtered off with suction washed with water 1 N hydrochloric acid and petroleum ether and dried on a clay dish. 74.9 mg 0.20 mmol 71 of theory of the title compound are isolated.

3.50 g 10.3 mmol of 5 fluoro 2 3 4 trifluoromethylphenyl prop 2 ynyloxy benzoic acid are suspended in 10 ml of THF 1.04 g 10.3 mmol of N methylmorpholine are added the mixture cooled to 0 C. and 1.12 g 10.3 mmol of ethyl chloroformate are added. The mixture is warmed to room temperature and stirred for 30 min. 1.17 g 31.0 mmol of sodium borohydride are added to this solution and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 5 h. Then methanol is added until gas evolution has subsided and subsequently 1 N hydrochloric acid is used to acidify. The solvent is distilled out in vacuo and the residue is taken up in ethyl acetate. The organic phase is washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate and the solvent is distilled out in vacuo. 4.62 g 8.69 mmol 85 of theory of the title compound are isolated.

834 mg 3.18 mmol of triphenylphosphine and 1.05 g 3.18 mmol of tetrabromomethane are dissolved in 2 ml of THF and stirred at room temperature for 10 min. Then 860 mg 2.63 mmol of 5 fluoro 2 3 4 trifluoromethylphenyl prop 2 ynyloxy phenylmethanol dissolved in 2 ml of THF are added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at room temperature overnight. The solvent is distilled out in vacuo and the residue is chromatographed on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 240 mg 0.62 mmol 24 of theory of 5 fluoro 2 3 4 trifluoromethylphenyl prop 2 ynyloxy benzyl bromide are obtained.

63.7 mg 0.24 mmol of triphenylphosphine are dissolved in 2 ml of dichloromethane 94 mg 0.24 mmol of 5 fluoro 2 3 4 trifluoromethylphenyl prop 2 ynyloxy benzyl bromide dissolved in 2 ml of dichloromethane are added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at room temperature overnight. The solvent is distilled out in vacuo and the crystalline residue is stirred with petroleum ether. The resulting colorless crystals are filtered off with suction and dried on a clay dish. 109 mg 0.17 mmol 69 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

1.46 ml 2.33 mmol of a 1.6 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added to a solution of 1093 mg 1.87 mmol of 5 fluoro 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl benzyltriphenylphosphonium bromide Example 32A in 20 ml of THF at 0 C. Then at this temperature 500 mg 1.56 mmol of methyl 4 4 4 cyanophenyl 2 formylbutyl benzoate from Example 16A are slowly metered in and the mixture is stirred at 0 C. for 4 hours. After the reaction solution has warmed to room temperature it is stirred for 12 hours and then some water is added and the mixture is concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 50 1 20 1 . 719 mg 1.31 mmol 84 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 444.1 mg 6.39 mmol of hydroxylamine hydrochloride in 10 ml of DMSO is mixed with 0.89 ml 6.39 mmol of triethylamine and stirred at room temperature for 10 min. The resulting precipitate is filtered off. Then 180 mg 0.28 mmol of methyl E Z 4 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 5 fluoro 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl phenylbut 3 enyl benzoate from Example 68A are metered into the filtrate. The reaction solution is stirred at 75 C. for 12 hours. After conversion is complete and cooling 10 ml of water are added to the reaction solution the mixture is extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution. The organic phase is then dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness. 632 mg of a colorless oil are obtained and are reacted further immediately without further purification.

The oil obtained above is dissolved in 10 ml of DMF and 0.1 ml 1.19 mmol of pyridine is added. The solution is then cooled to 0 C. and 193.83 mg 1.08 mmol of 2 ethylhexyl chloroformate are slowly added. The mixture is stirred at 0 C. for about 30 min and then taken up in water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness. The resulting residue is taken up in 10 ml of xylene and heated to reflux for 4 hours. After reaction is complete the reaction solution is cooled and concentrated to dryness. The crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . 447 mg 0.59 mmol 56 yield purity 82 of a colorless oil are obtained.

19.79 g 0.494 mol of sodium hydride are added in portions caution evolution of hydrogen to a solution of 121.5 g 0.659 mol of diallyl malonate in 1.5 liters of dioxane at 0 C. The mixture is warmed to room temperature and then stirred at 40 C. for 1 hour. Subsequently at 40 C. 50 g 0.329 mol of 4 chloromethylbenzonitrile dissolved in 500 ml of dioxane are slowly added dropwise and the reaction solution is stirred at 110 C. overnight. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture is added to 1200 ml of water. Care must be taken during this that the pH remains 

7.13 g 178.36 mmol of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 48.53 g 162.14 mmol of diallyl 2 4 cyanobenzyl malonate from Example 70A in 180 ml of DMF at 0 C. The reaction solution is then allowed to reach room temperature and is stirred for 30 min. The reaction solution is then cooled to 0 C. again and after addition of 55 g 194.57 mmol of methyl 4 2 bromoethyl benzoate CAS 136333 97 6 in 195 ml of DMF stirred at this temperature for 30 min. The mixture is then stirred at room temperature overnight. Water is added dropwise to the reaction mixture which is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase petroleum ether ethyl acetate 10 1 . 33.4 g 72.37 mol 44 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 7.47 ml 53.63 mmol of triethylamine and 1.53 ml 40.63 mmol of formic acid in 170 ml of dioxane is added to a solution of 7.5 g 16.25 mmol of diallyl 2 4 cyanobenzyl 2 2 4 methoxycarbonylphenyl ethyl malonate from Example 71A 0.3 g 1.14 mmol of triphenylphosphine and 70 mg of palladium acetate in 170 ml of dioxane at room temperature. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 100 C. for 2 hours. After conversion is complete the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The residue is then taken up in ethyl acetate and water and acidified with 1 N hydrochloric acid and the organic phase is separated off. The aqueous phase is extracted three times more with ethyl acetate and the organic phases are then combined washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solution is concentrated in vacuo. 5.48 g 89 yield 90 purity of a colorless solid are obtained.

47.43 ml of a 1 M borane THF complex solution 47.73 mmol are added dropwise to a solution of 8 g 23.71 mmol of methyl 4 3 carboxy 4 4 cyanophenyl butyl benzoate from Example 72A in 200 ml of THF at 10 C. After warming to 5 C. the mixture is stirred at this temperature for 4 hours. After reaction is complete the reaction mixture is mixed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in dichloromethane dried over sodium sulfate and again freed of solvent. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase ethyl acetate cyclohexane 1 10 . 5.8 g 98 purity 74 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 400 mg 1.24 mmol of methyl 4 3 4 cyanobenzyl 4 hydroxybutyl benzoate from Example 73A in 7 ml of dichloromethane is mixed with 320 mg 1.48 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC and stirred at room temperature for 5 hours. After conversion is complete about 1 g of silica gel is added and the solvent is removed to dryness in vacuo. The residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 . 302 mg 90 purity 69 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

5.91 ml 9.45 mmol of a 1.6 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added to a solution of 1820 mg 4.05 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide in 10 ml of anhydrous THF at 0 C. Then at this temperature 1085 mg 3.38 mmol of methyl 4 3 4 cyanobenzyl 4 oxobutyl benzoate from Example 74A dissolved in. 10 ml of THF are slowly metered in. After warming to room temperature the reaction solution is stirred for 12 hours and then some water is added and the mixture is concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 2 1 . 1150 mg 2.79 mmol 83 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 1150 mg 2.79 mmol of methyl E 4 3 4 cyanobenzyl 5 2 hydroxyphenyl pent 4 enyl benzoate from Example 75A in 50 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 908 mg 3.35 mmol of 4 chloromethyl 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl from Example 23A and 579 mg 4.19 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated to reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic phase is concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 7 3 . 1620 mg 2.51 mmol 90 yield of a solid are obtained.

A solution of 872 mg 12.54 mmol of hydroxylamine hydrochloride in 30 ml of DMSO is mixed with 1.75 ml 12.54 mmol of triethylamine and stirred at room temperature for 10 min. The resulting precipitate is filtered off. Subsequently 1620 mg 2.51 mmol of methyl E 4 3 4 cyanobenzyl 5 2 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 ylmethoxy phenyl pent 4 enylbenzoate from Example 76A are metered into the filtrate. The reaction solution is stirred at 75 C. for 12 hours. After conversion is complete and cooling 20 ml of water are added to the reaction solution and after extraction three times with ethyl acetate the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution. The organic phase is then dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness. 1265 mg of a colorless oil are obtained and are immediately reacted further without further purification.

The oil obtained above is dissolved in 50 ml of DMF and 0.18 ml 2.24 mmol of pyridine is added. The solution is then cooled to 0 C. and 333 mg 1.86 mmol of 2 ethylhexyl chloroformate are slowly added. The mixture is stirred at 0 C. for about 30 min and then taken up in water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness. The resulting residue is taken up in 50 ml of xylene and heated to reflux for 4 hours. After reaction is complete the reaction solution is cooled and concentrated to dryness. The crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 1000 mg 71 yield of a colorless oil are obtained.

A solution of 2.42 g 19.47 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl alcohol in 100 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 4.12 g 19.47 mmol of 2 chlorobenzyl bromide and 2.96 g 21.42 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated to reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic phase is concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 7 3 . 3.856 g 15.5 mmol 79 yield of a solid are obtained.

A solution of 3.775 g 15.18 mmol of 2 2 chlorobenzyloxy phenyl methanol from Example 78A in 60 ml of acetonitrile is mixed with 4.949 g 14.42 mmol of triphenylphosphonium hydrobromide and heated to reflux for 3 hours. The reaction solution is then concentrated to dryness and the resulting oil is taken up and triturated in diethyl ether. The product crystallizes as a white solid during this. After filtration the solid is dried in a drying oven at 50 C. overnight. 8.247 g 91 yield of crystalline product are obtained.

A solution of 2.42 g 19.47 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl alcohol in 100 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 3.91 g 19.47 mmol of 2 trifluoromethylbenzyl bromide and 2.96 g 21.42 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated to reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic phase is concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 7 3 . 5.08 g 87 yield of a solid are obtained.

A solution of 4.913 g 17.41 mmol of 2 2 trifluoromethylbenzyloxy phenyl methanol from Example 80A in 70 ml of acetonitrile is mixed with 5.675 g 16.54 mmol of triphenylphosphonium hydrobromide and heated to reflux for 3 hours. The reaction solution is then concentrated to dryness and the resulting oil is taken up and triturated in diethyl ether. The product crystallizes as a white solid during this. After filtration the solid is dried in a drying oven at 50 C. overnight. 9.621 g 88 yield of crystalline product are obtained.

16.29 g 407.19 mmol of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 100 g 542.92 mmol of diallyl malonate in 900 ml of dry dioxane at 5 C. After gas evolution ceases the reaction mixture is warmed to 40 C. and stirred for 30 min. Then 56.76 g 271.46 mmol of ethyl 5 bromovalerate in 100 ml of dry dioxane are added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at 110 C. for 12 hours. After the reaction is complete the mixture is cooled to room temperature and added to about 400 ml of ice water. After neutralization of the reaction mixture with 1 N hydrochloric acid the organic phase is separated off and the aqueous phase is extracted three times with 250 ml of ethyl acetate each time. After the organic phases have been combined they are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the reaction solution is concentrated in vacuo. Subsequently excess diallyl malonate is removed by high vacuum distillation boiling point 57 C. 0.074 mbar . The distillation residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 2 1 . 73.92 g 236.65 mmol 44 of theory of a colorless liquid are obtained.

6.37 g 159.27 mmol content 60 of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 45.23 g 144.79 mmol of 1 allyl 7 ethyl 2 allyloxycarbonylheptanedioate from Example 82A in 250 ml of DMF at 0 C. The reaction solution is then allowed to reach room temperature and is stirred for 30 min. The reaction solution is then cooled to 0 C. and after addition of 36.50 g 173.75 mmol of 4 2 bromoethyl benzonitrile from Example 8A in 250 ml DMF stirred at this temperature for 30 min. The mixture is then stirred at room temperature overnight. Water is added dropwise to the reaction mixture and after extraction three times with ethyl acetate the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 1 1 . 17.85 g 40.43 mol 28 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 18.6 ml 133.4 mmol of triethylamine and 3.81 ml 101.1 mmol of formic acid in 175 ml of dioxane is added to a solution of 21 g 40.43 mmol of 1 allyl 7 ethyl 2 allyloxycarbonyl 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl heptanedioate from Example 83A 742 mg 2.83 mmol of triphenylphosphine and 181 mg 0.81 mmol of palladium acetate in 175 ml of dioxane at room temperature. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 10 C. for 12 hours. After conversion is complete the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The residue is then taken up in ethyl acetate and water and acidified with 1 N hydrochloric acid and the organic phase is separated off. The aqueous phase is extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the organic phases are combined washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the reaction solution is concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 1 1 . 8.6 g 64 yield 95 purity of a colorless solid are obtained.

54.19 ml of a 1 M borane THF complex solution 54.19 mmol are added dropwise to a solution of 8.6 g 27.1 mmol of 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl heptanedioic acid 7 ethyl ester from Example 84A in 200 ml of THF at 10 C. After warming to 0 C. the mixture is stirred at this temperature for 2 hours. After reaction is complete saturated sodium bicarbonate solution is added to the reaction mixture and the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in dichloromethane dried over sodium sulfate and again freed of solvent. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase ethyl acetate cyclohexane 1 10 1 4 . 5.1 g 97 purity 60 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 4 g 13.18 mmol of ethyl 8 4 cyanophenyl 6 hydroxymethyloctanoate from Example 85A in 100 ml of dichloromethane is mixed with 3.41 g 15.82 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC and stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. After conversion is complete the solvent is concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 . 2.74 g 9.09 mmol 69 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

15.91 ml 25.45 mmol of a 1.6 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added to a solution of 5.066 g 10.91 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide in 38 ml of anhydrous THF at 0 C. Then at this temperature 2.740 g 9.09 mmol of ethyl 8 4 cyanophenyl 6 formyloctanoate from Example 86A dissolved in 38 ml of THF are slowly metered in. After the reaction solution has been warmed to room temperature it is stirred for 12 hours and after addition of some water concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 . 2.30 g 5.88 mmol 63 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 2300 mg 5.87 mmol of ethyl E 6 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 8 2 hydroxyphenyl oct 7 enoate from Example 87A in 160 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 1600 mg 7.05 mmol of 4 tert butyl benzyl bromide and 1220 mg 8.81 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated to reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic phase is concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography an silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 2800 mg 5.21 mmol 88 yield of a solid are obtained.

A solution of 1.16 g 16.74 mmol of hydroxylamine hydrochloride in 20 ml of DMSO is mixed with 2.33 ml 16.74 mmol of triethylamine and stirred at room temperature for 10 min. The resulting precipitate is filtered off. 1.8 g 3.35 mmol of ethyl E 8 2 4 tert butylbenzyloxy phenyl 6 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl oct 7 enoate from Example 88A are then metered into the filtrate. The reaction solution is stirred at 75 C. for 12 hours. After conversion is complete and cooling 20 ml of water are added to the reaction solution and after extraction three times with ethyl acetate the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution. The organic phase is then dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness. 1.6 g of a colorless oil are obtained and are immediately reacted further without further purification.

The oil obtained above is dissolved in 20 ml of DMF and 0.27 ml 3.36 mmol of pyridine is added. The solution is then cooled to 0 C. and 500 mg 2.80 mmol of 2 ethylhexyl chloroformate are slowly added. The mixture is stirred at 0 C. for about 30 min and then taken up in water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness. The resulting residue is taken up in 20 ml of xylene and heated to reflux for 2 hours. After the reaction is complete the reaction solution is cooled and concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 1 1 . 1.19 g 70 yield of a solid are obtained.

21.71 g 542.9 mmol 60 pure of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 100 g 542.9 mmol of diallyl malonate in 700 ml of dry dioxane at 0 C. After gas evolution ceases the reaction mixture is warmed to 40 C. and stirred for 1 hour. Then 43.98 g 271.5 mmol of 5 bromovaleronitrile in 350 ml of dry dioxane are added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at 110 C. for 12 hours. After the reaction is complete the mixture is cooled to room temperature mixed with 400 ml of saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate. After phase separation the aqueous phase is back extracted three times with 250 ml of ethyl acetate each time. After the organic phases have been combined they are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate and then the solvent is stripped off in vacuo. Excess diallyl malonate is subsequently removed by high vacuum distillation boiling point 57 C. 0.074 mbar . The distillation residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 2 1 . 105 g 233 mmol approx. 60 purity 43 yield of a liquid are obtained. This product is reacted without further purification in the subsequent stage. A small amount is purified by preparative HPLC for analytical characterization.

5.62 g 140 mmol 60 content of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 48.64 g 127.73 mmol of diallyl 2 4 cyanobutyl malonate from Example 90A in 160 ml of dry DMF at 0 C. The reaction solution is then allowed to reach room temperature and is stirred for 90 min. The reaction solution is then cooled to 0 C. again and after addition of 45.72 g 153.3 mmol of methyl 4 2 bromoethyl benzoate in 80 ml of dry DMF stirred at this temperature for 45 min. The mixture is then stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture is mixed with water and extracted with ethyl acetate. After phase separation the aqueous phase is extracted three times with 200 ml of ethyl acetate each time. The combined organic phases is washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate and then the solvent is stripped off in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by silica gel chromatography mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 100 ethyl acetate . 18.53 g 43.3 mmol 34 yield of a colorless liquid are obtained.

A solution of 7.45 ml 53.42 mmol of triethylamine and 1.53 ml 40.47 mmol of formic acid in 67 ml of dioxane is added to a solution of 6.92 g 16.19 mmol of diallyl 2 4 cyanobutyl 2 2 4 methoxycarbonylphenyl ethyl malonate from Example 91A 594 mg 2.26 mmol of triphenylphosphine and 145 mg 0.64 mmol of palladium acetate in 67 ml of dioxane at room temperature. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 10 C. for 12 hours. After conversion is complete the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and water and acidified with 1 N hydrochloric acid and the organic phase is separated off. The aqueous phase is extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the organic phases are then combined washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the organic phase is concentrated in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 2 1 1 3 with 1 formic acid . 2.1 g 43 yield 100 purity of a colorless solid are obtained.

33 ml of a 1 M borane THF complex solution 33 mmol are added dropwise to a solution of 5 g 16.48 mmol of methyl 4 3 carboxy 7 cyanoheptyl benzoate from Example 92A in 62 ml of THF at 15 C. and the solution is stirred at this temperature for 2 hours. Then a further 16 ml of 1 M borane THF complex solution are added dropwise and stirring is continued for 45 minutes. The reaction mixture is then warmed to 0 C. and stirred at this temperature for 1 hour. After reaction is complete 100 ml of saturated bicarbonate solution are added to the reaction mixture and the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate and water and the aqueous phase is extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate and again freed of solvent. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 2 1 1 3 100 ethyl acetate . 2.4 g 93 purity 47 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 2.23 g 7.71 mmol of methyl 4 7 cyano 3 hydroxymethylheptyl benzoate from Example 93A in 100 ml of dichloromethane is mixed with 1.99 g 9.26 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC and stirred at room temperature for 6 hours. After conversion is complete the solvent is concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 . 1.50 g 9.09 mmol 68 yield of an oil are obtained.

9.07 ml 14.52 mmol of a 1.6 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added dropwise to a suspension of 3.26 g 7.26 mmol of 2 hydroxyphenyltriphenylphosphonium bromide in 40 ml of dry THF at 0 C. and the mixture is stirred for 5 minutes. Then at this temperature 1.49 g 5.19 mmol of methyl 4 7 cyano 3 formylheptyl benzoate from Example 94A in 10 ml of dry THF are slowly added dropwise. The reaction mixture is stirred at 0 C. for 10 minutes. The cooling is then removed and the reaction solution is stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes and then mixed with silica gel and concentrated to dryness. The resulting residue is purified directly by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 2 1 5 . 1.71 g 75 purity 3.40 mmol 65 yield of an oil are obtained.

A solution of 1.70 g 3.38 mmol 75 pure of methyl 4 7 cyano 3 2 2 hydroxyphenyl vinyl heptylbenzoate from Example 95A in 20 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 1.53 g 7.76 mmol of 4 tert butyl benzyl bromide and 1.4 g 10.13 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated to reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then filtered and the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is taken up on silica gel and purified by flash chromatography mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 1700 mg 3.12 mmol 96 purity 92 yield of an oil are obtained.

A solution of 1 g 1.83 mmol 96 pure of methyl 4 3 2 2 4 tert butylbenzyloxy phenyl vinyl 7 cyanoheptyl benzoate from Example 96A in 1.90 ml of methanol and 3.80 ml of THF is mixed with 3.82 g 76.38 mmol of hydrazine monohydrate and stirred at 60 C. for 12 hours. The reaction mixture is concentrated to dryness and the residue is coevaporated again with dichloromethane. The resulting crude product 1.1 g is immediately reacted in the next stage.

A solution of 566.6 mg 2.86 mmol of trichloromethyl chloroformate in 2.5 ml of dry dioxane is mixed with 1.0 g of 4 3 E 2 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenylvinyl 7 cyanoheptyl benzohydrazide from Example 97A crude product in 7.5 ml of dioxane and heated to reflux for 3 hours. The mixture is then directly taken up on silica gel concentrated to dryness and purified by flash chromatography mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 5 1 . 236 mg 0.429 mmol 23 yield based on two stages of a solid are obtained.

A solution of 1.4 g 3.13 mmol 92 pure of methyl E 4 3 4 cyanobenzyl 5 2 hydroxyphenyl pent 4 enyl benzoate Example 75A in 7 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 1.42 g 6.26 mmol 4 tert butyl benzyl bromide and 1.30 g 9.39 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated to reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then filtered and the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The residue is directly purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 then 1 5 . 1.85 g 3.32 mmol 93 purity 98 yield of an oil are isolated.

A solution of 350 mg 0.63 mmol of methyl 4 4E 5 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 3 4 cyanobenzyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoate from Example 99A in 2 ml of THF and 1 ml of water is mixed with 60 mg 2.51 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 60 C. for 12 h. The reaction mixture is adjusted to pH 34 with 1 M hydrochloric acid and concentrated. The residue is directly taken up on silica gel and purified by chromatography mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 2 then 100 ethyl acetate . 350 mg 0.61 mmol 95 purity 97 yield of a solid are isolated.

5.9 mg 0.05 mmol of oxalyl chloride are slowly added dropwise to a solution of 12.7 mg 0.02 mmol of 4 4E 5 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 3 4 cyanobenzyl pent 4 en 1 yl benzoic acid from Example 100A in 0.2 ml of dry THF with 1 drop of DMF while cooling in ice. The reaction mixture is stirred at RT for 30 minutes and then concentrated in vacuo and the residue is coevaporated twice with dichloromethane and then taken up in 0.2 ml of THF. This solution is added dropwise to a solution of 4.2 mg 0.05 mmol of thiosemicarbazide in 0.25 ml of THF at 0 C. The mixture is stirred at RT for 1 hour and then concentrated and the residue is reacted without further purification in the next stage.

A solution of 2 g 3.6 mmol of methyl E 4 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl 4 2 hydroxyphenyl but 3 enyl benzoate Example 17A in 8 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 2.20 g 9.71 mmol of 4 tert butyl benzyl bromide and 2.02 g 14.59 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated to reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then filtered and the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The residue is purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . 1.9 g 3.30 mmol 97 purity 92 yield of an oil are isolated.

800 mg 1.43 mmol of methyl 4 3E 4 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl but 3 en 1 ylbenzoate Example 102A are introduced into 3 ml of methanol and 1.5 ml of THF and 2.88 g 57.4 mmol of hydrazine monohydrate are added dropwise. The reaction mixture is stirred at 65 C. for 3 hours and then at RT for a further 12 hours. After removal of the solvent in vacuo the residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase dichloromethane methanol aq. ammonia 20 1 0.1 . 185 mg 89 purity of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 185 mg 0.29 mmol 89 purity of 4 3E 4 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl but 3 en 1 ylbenzohydrazide from Example 103A in 1 ml of dioxane is slowly added dropwise to a solution of 87.3 mg 0.44 mmol of trichloromethyl chloroformate in 0.5 ml of dioxane. The reaction mixture is stirred under reflux for two hours. After cooling the mixture is concentrated in vacuo directly taken up on silica gel and purified by flash chromatography mobile phase dichloromethane methanol aq. ammonia 10 1 0.1 . 166 mg 0.28 mmol 96 yield of an oil are isolated.

A solution of 1.1 g 1.97 mmol of methyl 4 3E 4 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl but 3 en 1 ylbenzoate from Example 102A in 7.20 ml of THF and 3.60 ml of water is mixed with 189 mg 7.89 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 60 C. for 12 h. The reaction mixture is adjusted to pH 34 with 1 M hydrochloric acid and concentrated. The residue is taken up on silica gel and purified by chromatography mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 1 with 0.1 formic acid . 990 mg 1.77 mmol 97 purity 90 yield of a solid are isolated.

836 mg 6.62 mmol of oxalyl chloride are slowly added dropwise to a solution of 600 mg 1.10 mmol of 4 3E 4 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl but 3 en 1 ylbenzoic acid from Example 105A in 6 ml of dry toluene with 4 drops of DMF while cooling in ice. The reaction mixture is stirred at RT for 10 minutes and then heated to reflux for 1 hour. After cooling the mixture is concentrated in vacuo and the residue is coevaporated twice with toluene and then taken up in 6 ml of THF. This solution is added dropwise to a previously prepared solution of 135.4 mg 1.21 mmol of semicarbazide hydrochloride and 88.3 mg 2.21 mmol of sodium hydroxide in 1 ml of THF and 0.25 ml of water at 0 C. The mixture is stirred at 0 C. for 2 hours and then at RT for 30 minutes and the residue after concentration is reacted without further purification in the next stage.

210 mg 1.66 mmol of oxalyl chloride are slowly added dropwise to a solution of 150 mg 0.28 mmol of 4 3E 4 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl but 3 en 1 ylbenzoic acid from Example 105A in 1.5 ml of dry toluene with 2 drops of DMF while cooling in ice. The reaction mixture is stirred at RT for 5 minutes and then heated to reflux for 1 hour. After cooling the mixture is concentrated in vacuo and the residue is coevaporated twice with toluene and then taken up in 3 ml of THF. This solution is added to a previously prepared solution of 33.5 mg 0.30 mmol of aminoguanidine hydrochloride and 22 mg 0.55 mmol of sodium hydroxide in 1 ml of THF and 0.25 ml of water at 0 C. The mixture is stirred at 0 C. for 2 hours and then concentrated and the residue is reacted without further purification in the next stage.

1.69 g 70.43 mmol of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 20 g 64.03 mmol of 1 allyl 7 ethyl 2 allyloxycarbonylheptanedioate from Example 82A in 140 ml of dimethylformamide at 0 C. The reaction mixture is then allowed to reach room temperature and is stirred for 30 min. The reaction solution is cooled to 0 C. again and after addition of 16.32 g 83.24 mmol of 4 bromomethylbenzonitrile in 140 ml of DMF stirred at this temperature for 30 min. The mixture is then stirred at room temperature overnight. Water is added dropwise to the reaction mixture and after extraction three times with ethyl acetate the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography an silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 4 1 1 1 . 20.08 g 46.97 mmol 73 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 24.21 ml 173.69 mmol of triethylamine and 4.96 ml 131.58 mmol of formic acid in 500 ml of dioxane is added to a solution of 22.5 g 52.63 mmol of 1 allyl 7 ethyl 2 allyloxycarbonyl 2 4 cyanobenzyl heptanedioate from Example 108A 970 mg 3.68 mmol of triphenylphosphine and 240 mg 1.05 mmol of palladium acetate in 500 ml of dioxane at room temperature. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 10 C. for 2 hours. After conversion is complete the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The residue is then taken up in ethyl acetate and water and acidified with 1 N hydrochloric acid and the organic phase is separated off. The aqueous phase is extracted three times more with ethyl acetate and the organic phases are then combined washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solution is concentrated in vacuo. 17.5 g 87 yield 80 purity of a colorless solid are obtained.

34.42 ml of a 1 M borane THF complex solution 34.42 mmol are added dropwise to a solution of 6.64 g 22.94 mmol of 2 4 cyanobenzyl heptanedioic acid 7 ethyl ester from Example 109A in 260 ml of THF at 10 C. After warming to 0 C. the mixture is stirred at this temperature for 2 hours. After the reaction is complete saturated sodium bicarbonate solution is added to the reaction mixture and the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in dichloromethane dried over sodium sulfate and again freed of solvent. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase ethyl acetate cyclohexane 1 8 1 2 . 5.84 g 88 yield 20.19 mmol of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 4.6 g 15.90 mmol of ethyl 6 4 cyanobenzyl 7 hydroxyheptanoate from Example 110A in 250 ml of dichloromethane is mixed with 4.11 g 19.08 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC and stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. After conversion is complete 10 g of silica gel are added and the solvent is cautiously concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 1 . 4.09 g 14.23 mmol 89 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

15.98 ml 39.95 mmol of a 2.5 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added to a solution of 6.411 g 14.27 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide in 300 ml of anhydrous THF at 0 C. Then at this temperature 4.1 g 14.27 mmol of ethyl 6 4 cyanobenzyl 7 oxoheptanoate from Example 111A are slowly metered in. After warming to room temperature the reaction solution is stirred for 12 hours and then mixed with saturated ammonium chloride solution and concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . 1.75 g 4.64 mmol 32 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 1.75 g 4.64 mmol of ethyl E 6 4 cyanobenzyl 8 2 hydroxyphenyl oct 7 enoate from Example 112A in 50 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 1579 mg 6.95 mmol of 4 tert butyl benzyl bromide and 961 mg 6.95 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated to reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic phase is concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 8 1 4 1 . 2.24 g 4.28 mmol 92 yield of a solid are obtained.

A solution of 823 mg 11.84 mmol of hydroxylamine hydrochloride in 10 ml of DMSO is mixed with 1.65 ml 11.84 mmol of triethylamine and stirred at room temperature for 10 min. The resulting precipitate is filtered off. Then 1.24 g 2.37 mmol of ethyl E 8 2 4 tert butylbenzyloxy phenyl 6 4 cyanobenzyl oct 7 enoate from Example 113A are metered into the filtrate. The reaction solution is stirred at 75 C. for 12 hours. After conversion is complete and cooling 10 ml of water are added to the reaction solution and after extraction three times with ethyl acetate the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution. The organic phase is then dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness. 1380 mg of a colorless oil are obtained and are reacted further immediately without further purification.

The oil obtained above is dissolved in 15 ml of DMF and 0.22 ml 2.77 mmol of pyridine is added. The solution is then cooled to 0 C. and 412 mg 2.31 mmol of 2 ethylhexyl chloroformate are slowly added. The mixture is stirred at 0 C. for about 30 min and then taken up in water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to dryness. The resulting residue is taken up in 15 ml of xylene and heated to reflux for 4 hours. After reaction is complete the reaction solution is cooled and concentrated to dryness. 1.38 g 90 purity 92 yield of a solid are obtained.

1.88 g 78.23 mmol of sodium hydride are added in portions to a solution of 20 g 60.18 mmol of diallyl 2 4 methoxycarbonylbenzyl malonate from Example 12A in 140 ml of DMF at 0 C. The reaction solution is then warmed to 40 C. and is stirred at this temperature for 30 min. The reaction solution is then cooled to 0 C. again and after addition of 10.73 g 66.20 mmol of bromovaleronitrile in 140 ml of DMF stirred at this temperature for 30 min. The mixture is then stirred at room temperature overnight. Water is added dropwise to the reaction mixture and after extraction three times with ethyl acetate the combined organic phases are washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 9 1 4 1 . 15.5 g 37.49 mmol 62 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

17.24 ml 123.71 mmol of triethylamine and 4.24 ml 112.46 mmol of formic acid in 500 ml of dioxane is added to a solution of 15.5 g 37.49 mmol of diallyl 2 4 cyanobutyl 2 4 methoxycarbonylbenzyl malonate from Example 115A 690 mg 2.62 mmol of triphenylphosphine and 170 mg 0.75 mmol of palladium acetate in 500 ml of dioxane at room temperature. The reaction mixture is then stirred at 10 C. for 12 hours. After conversion is complete the reaction solution is cooled and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The residue is then taken up in ethyl acetate and water and acidified with 1 N hydrochloric acid and the organic phase is separated off. The aqueous phase is extracted three times more with ethyl acetate and then the organic phases are combined washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solution is concentrated in vacuo. 8.1 g 74 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

27.65 ml of a 1 M borane THF complex solution are added dropwise to a solution of 3.835 g 13.83 mmol of methyl 4 2 carboxy 6 cyanohexyl benzoate from Example 116A in 200 ml of THF at 10 C. After warming to 0 C. the mixture is stirred at this temperature for 2 hours. After reaction is complete saturated sodium bicarbonate solution is added to the reaction mixture and the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in dichloromethane dried over sodium sulfate and again freed of solvent. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase ethyl acetate cyclohexane 1 8 1 2 . 2.95 g 77 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 3.8 g 13.80 mmol of methyl 4 6 cyano 2 hydroxymethylhexyl benzoate from Example 117A in 250 ml of dichloromethane is mixed with 3.57 g 16.56 mmol of pyridinium chlorochromate PCC and stirred at room temperature for 12 hours. After conversion is complete 10 g of silica gel are added and the solvent is cautiously concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 1 1 . 3.49 g 92 yield are obtained as a colorless solid.

14.34 ml 35.85 mmol of a 2.5 M solution of n butyllithium in hexane are slowly added to a solution of 5.753 g 12.81 mmol of 2 hydroxybenzyl triphenylphosphonium bromide in 300 ml of anhydrous THF at 0 C. Then at this temperature 3.5 g 12 81 mmol of methyl 4 6 cyano 2 formylhexyl benzoate from Example 118A are slowly metered in. After warming to room temperature the reaction solution is stirred for 4 hours then mixed with saturated ammonium chloride solution and concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent is concentrated to dryness. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . 2976 mg 64 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

A solution of 2.976 g 8.19 mmol of methyl E 4 6 cyano 2 2 2 hydroxyphenyl vinyl hexyl benzoate from Example 119A in 100 ml of dry acetonitrile is mixed with 2.789 g 12.28 mmol of 4 tert butyl benzyl bromide and 1.697 g 12.28 mmol of anhydrous potassium carbonate and heated to reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then filtered and the filtrate is concentrated to dryness. The residue is taken up in ethyl acetate washed with water and saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic phase is concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 8 1 4 1 . 3.85 g 92 yield of a solid are obtained.

A solution of 200 mg 0.39 mmol of methyl E 4 2 2 2 4 tert butylbenzyloxy phenyl vinyl 6 cyanohexyl benzoate from Example 120A in 2 ml of methanol and 1 ml of THF is mixed with 785 mg 15.70 mmol of hydrazine monohydrate and stirred at 70 C. for 12 hours. The reaction mixture is concentrated to dryness and the residue is coevaporated again with dichloromethane. The resulting crude product 166 mg is reacted directly in the next reaction.

A solution of 96.65 mg 0.49 mmol of trichloromethyl chloroformate in 0.5 ml of dry dioxane is mixed with 166 mg of the intermediate obtained above crude product in 1 ml of dioxane and heated to reflux for 1 hour. The mixture is then concentrated to dryness and the resulting residue is purified by preparative HPLC. 47 mg 22 yield based on the two stages of a solid are obtained.

A solution of 798 mg 1.48 mmol of ethyl 7E 8 2 4 tert butylbenzyloxy phenyl 6 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl oct 7 enoate in 20 ml of THF and 20 ml of water is mixed with 71 mg 2.97 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 50 C. for 12 hours. Cooling is followed by dilution with water and diethyl ether and separation of the phases. The aqueous phase is acidified with 1 M hydrochloric acid and extracted with diethyl ether. The organic phase is washed with saturated sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. 700 mg 1.4 mmol 93 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

4 drops of DMF are added to a solution of 700 mg 1.37 mmol of 7E 8 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 6 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl oct 7 enoic acid in 8 ml of toluene. Then 0.72 ml 8.24 mmol of oxalyl chloride is added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at room temperature for 10 min. The reaction solution is then heated to 80 C. and stirred at this temperature for 1 h. After cooling the solvent is stripped off and the residue is mixed twice more with toluene and again evaporated to dryness each time intermediate .

168.5 mg 1.5 mmol of semicarbazide hydrochloride are dissolved in 5 ml of THF and 2 ml of water and 110 mg 2.75 mmol of sodium hydroxide are added. The solution is cooled to 0 C. and the intermediate obtained above dissolved in 10 ml of THF is slowly added dropwise. The mixture is stirred at 0 C. for 2 h and then concentrated. 778 mg 1.3 mmol 100 of theory of the title compound are obtained and are reacted without further purification and characterization.

1.25 g 17.9 mmol of hydroxylammonium chloride are introduced into 20 ml of DMSO and 2.5 ml of triethylamine are added. The mixture is stirred at room temperature for 10 min and the precipitated solid is filtered off with suction. The mother liquor is added to 2 g 3.59 mmol of methyl 4 3E 4 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl but 3 en 1 ylbenzoate and the mixture is then stirred at 75 C. for 12 h. After conversion is complete the reaction solution is added to ice water. The resulting crystals are filtered off with suction and washed with water and then taken up in diethyl ether and washed with sodium chloride solution. The organic phase is dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. 1.9 g 83 purity 2.67 mmol 74 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

A solution of 1.9 g 83 content 2.67 mmol of methyl 4 3E 2 2 4 amino hydroxyimino methyl phenylethyl 4 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenylbut 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 20 ml of DMF is mixed with 0.31 ml 3.86 mmol of pyridine and cooled in an ice bath. Then 0.63 ml 3.2 mmol of 2 ethylhexyl chloroformate is added dropwise and the mixture is stirred at 0 C. for 30 min. After conversion is complete water is added and the mixture is extracted with diethyl ether. The organic phase is dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 . The product obtained in this way is taken up in 20 ml of xylene and heated at reflux for 2 h. This is followed by addition of water and extraction with diethyl ether. The organic phase is washed with sodium chloride solution and dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 1 1 . 503 mg 0.82 mmol 24 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

5 g 26 mmol of 2 trifluoromethoxybenzyl alcohol and 8.5 g 24.7 mmol of triphenylphosphonium bromide are heated under reflux in 100 ml of acetonitrile for 3 h. After cooling the resulting precipitate is filtered off with suction and dried. 13.5 g quant. of the title compound are obtained.

11.3 g 27.5 mmol of the racemic methyl E 4 3 4 cyanobenzyl 5 2 hydroxyphenyl pent 4 enyl benzoate obtained in Example 75A are fractionated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 4.14 g and 3.69 g of the two E isomers are obtained each enantiopure as colorless solids Example 127A and 128A .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 4.6 mm 5 m eluent isohexane isopropanol 50 50 v v flow rate 1 ml min UV detection 210 nm temperature 25 C.

A solution of 32.7 mg 0.05 mmol of methyl 4 2 4 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenyl ethyl 2 2 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 ylmethoxy phenyl ethylamino methyl benzoate from Example 11A in 2 ml of THF and 2 ml of water is mixed with 2.2 mg 0.09 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 50 C. for 12 h. After cooling the THF is stripped off and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 4 5 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. It is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. The residue obtained after filtration and concentration is purified by preparative HPLC. 7.4 mg 0.01 mmol 23 yield of a colorless oil are obtained.

A solution of 35 mg 0.05 mmol of methyl E 4 2 2 4 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenyl ethyl 4 2 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 ylmethoxy phenyl but 3 enylbenzoate from Example 20A in 2 ml of THF and 2 ml of water is mixed with 2.38 mg 0.1 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 50 C. for 12 h. After cooling the THF is stripped off and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 4 5 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. It is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. The residue obtained after filtration and concentration is purified by preparative HPLC. 19.8 mg 0.028 mmol 57 yield of a colorless solid is obtained.

A solution of 447 mg 0.74 mmol of methyl E Z 4 4 5 fluoro 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl phenyl 2 2 4 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenyl ethylbut 3 enyl benzoate from Example 69A in 10 ml of THF and 10 ml of water is mixed with 35.3 mg 1.47 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 50 C. for 12 h. After cooling the THF is stripped off and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 4 5 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. It is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. The residue obtained after filtration and concentration is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 4 1 2 1 1 1 . 291 mg 0.49 mmol 63 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

291 mg 0.49 mmol of the E Z 4 4 5 fluoro 2 2 4 methoxyphenyl ethyl phenyl 2 2 4 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenyl ethylbut 3 enyl benzoic acid obtained in this way are fractionated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 53 mg and 64.5 mg of the two E isomers each enantiopure and 72.4 mg of the racemic Z isomer are obtained as colorless solids see Examples 11 13 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 30 70 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 24 C.

A solution of 1000 mg 1.42 mmol of methyl E 4 3 4 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl benzyl 5 2 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 ylmethoxy phenyl pent 4 enylbenzoate from Example 77A in 20 ml of THF and 20 ml of water is mixed with 68 mg 2.84 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 50 C. for 12 h. After cooling the THF is stripped off and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 4 5 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. It is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. The residue obtained after filtration and concentration is purified by preparative HPLC. 870 mg 1.26 mmol 89 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

500 mg 0.72 mmol of the racemic E 4 3 4 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl benzyl 5 2 4 trifluoromethylbiphenyl 4 ylmethoxy phenyl pent 4 enylbenzoic acid obtained in this way are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 288 mg and 160 mg of the two E isomers each enantiopure are obtained see Examples 55 and 56 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 30 70 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 mm temperature 24 C.

A solution of 1150 mg 1.93 mmol of ethyl 8 2 4 tert butylbenzyloxy phenyl 6 2 4 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenyl ethyloct 7 enoate from Example 89A in 10 ml of THF and 10 ml of water is mixed with 93.30 mg 3.85 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 50 C. for 12 h. After cooling the THF is stripped off and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 4 5 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. It is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. The residue obtained after filtration and concentration is purified by preparative HPLC. 1.04 g 93 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

800 mg 1.41 mmol of the racemic E 8 2 4 tert butylbenzyloxy phenyl 6 2 4 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenyl ethyloct 7 enoic acid obtained in this way are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 381 mg and 412 mg of the two E isomers each enantiopure are obtained see Examples 71 and 72 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 30 70 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 24 C.

220 mg 0.4 mmol of 7E 8 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 6 2 4 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl phenyl ethyloct 7 enenitrile from Example 98A in 8 ml of n propanol are mixed with 898 mg 16 mmol of potassium hydroxide and heated to reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then adjusted to pH 4 with 1 N hydrochloric acid and concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The residue is taken up in dichloromethane methanol 10 1 and filtered the filtrate is again concentrated and the residue is purified by flash chromatography on silica gel mobile phase ethyl acetate cyclohexane 1 1 with 0.1 formic acid . 95 mg 0.167 mmol 42 yield of a solid are obtained.

95 mg 0.17 mmol of the racemic E 8 2 4 tert butylbenzyloxy phenyl 6 2 4 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 3 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenyl ethyloct 7 enoic acid obtained in this way are fractionated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 35 mg and 39 mg of the two E isomers each enantiopure are obtained see Examples 74 and 75 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 60 40 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 25 C.

The crude product from Example 101A and 64.52 mg 1.15 mmol of potassium hydroxide are stirred in 1 ml of n propanol at 110 C. for 12 hours. After cooling the reaction mixture is adjusted to pH 2 3 with 1 N hydrochloric acid and concentrated and the residue is purified by preparative HPLC. 7 mg of the title compound are isolated.

143 mg 0.22 mmol of 4 4E 5 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 3 4 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzonitrile from Example 104A in 5.7 ml of n propanol are mixed with 489 mg 8.72 mmol of potassium hydroxide and stirred at 110 C. for 15 hours. The mixture is then adjusted to pH 34 with 1 N hydrochloric acid and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue is purified by preparative HPLC. 136 mg 0.21 mmol 91.5 purity 94.7 yield of a solid are obtained.

135 mg 0.21 mmol of the racemic 4 4E 5 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 3 4 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl benzyl pent 4 en 1 ylbenzoic acid obtained in this way are fractionated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 68 mg and 64 mg of the two E isomers each enantiopure are obtained see Examples 78 and 79 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent ethanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 20 80 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 30 C.

The crude product from Example 106A is suspended in 10 ml of 2 M sodium hydroxide solution and heated to reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then adjusted to pH 34 with 1 N hydrochloric acid and concentrated. The residue is taken up in dichloromethane methanol 10 1 and filtered and the filtrate is again concentrated. The resulting crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 268 mg 64 purity 34 yield of a solid are isolated. A small amount thereof is purified by another preparative HPLC for analytical characterization.

The crude product from Example 107A is suspended in 2 ml of 2 M sodium hydroxide solution and heated to reflux for 12 hours. The mixture is then adjusted to pH 3 4 with 1 N hydrochloric acid and concentrated. The residue is taken up in dichloromethane methanol 10 1 and filtered the filtrate is again concentrated and the crude product is purified by preparative HPLC. 17 mg of a solid are isolated.

A solution of 1.38 g 2.25 mmol of ethyl E 8 2 4 tert butylbenzyloxy phenyl 6 4 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl benzyl oct 7 enoate from Example 114A in 10 ml of THF and 10 ml of water is mixed with 107.7 mg 4.5 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 60 C. for 12 h. After cooling the THF is stripped off and the aqueous phase is adjusted to pH 4 5 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. It is then extracted three times with ethyl acetate and the combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate. The residue obtained after filtration and concentration is purified by preparative HPLC. 867 mg 69 yield of a colorless solid are obtained.

800 mg 1.44 mmol of the racemic E 8 2 4 tert butylbenzyloxy phenyl 6 4 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl benzyl oct 7 enoic acid obtained in this way are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 390 mg and 357 mg of the two E isomers each enantiopure are obtained see Examples 83 and 84 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 30 70 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 24 C.

47 mg 0.09 mmol of E 8 2 4 tert butylbenzyloxy phenyl 6 4 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl benzyl oct 7 enenitrile from Example 121A in 10 ml of n propanol are mixed with 196 mg 3.51 mmol of potassium hydroxide and stirred at 110 C. for 15 hours. The mixture is then adjusted to pH 4 with 1 N hydrochloric acid and extracted three times with diethyl ether. The combined organic phases are dried over sodium sulfate and then concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue is purified by preparative HPLC. 12 mg 0.02 mmol 24 yield of a solid are obtained.

778 mg 1.3 mmol of 2 7E 8 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 6 2 4 cyanophenyl ethyl oct 7 enoylhydrazinecarboxamide are suspended in 10 ml of 2 M sodium hydroxide solution and the mixture is stirred at 100 C. for 12 h. After cooling it is acidified with 1 M hydrochloric acid and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase is dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting residue is purified by preparative HPLC. 580 mg 85 purity 0.87 mmol 56 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

580 mg content 85 0.87 mmol of 4 3 7E 2 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenylvinyl 7 5 oxo 4 57 dihydro 1H 1 2 4 triazol 3 yl heptyl benzoic acid are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. Respectively 139 mg and 143 mg of the two E isomers each enantiopure are obtained see Examples 87 and 88 .

Column Daicel Chiralcel OD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 20 80 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 30 C.

A solution of 500 mg 0.81 mmol of methyl 4 3E 4 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 4 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenyl ethylbut 3 en 1 yl benzoate in 5 ml of THF and 5 ml of water is mixed with 38.8 mg 1.62 mmol of lithium hydroxide and stirred at 50 C. for 12 h. Cooling is followed by addition of water and extraction with diethyl ether. The aqueous phase is acidified with 1 M hydrochloric acid and extracted with diethyl ether. The resulting organic phase is washed with sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. 420 mg 0.7 mmol 79 of theory of the title compound are obtained.

400 mg 0.66 mmol of 4 3E 4 2 4 tert butylbenzyl oxy phenyl 2 2 4 5 oxo 4 5 dihydro 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenyl ethylbut 3 en 1 yl benzoic acid are further fractionated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase. 155 mg of each of the two E isomers are obtained enantiopure see Examples 90 and 91 .

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 50 50 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 29 C.

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm 5 m eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 30 70 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 25 C.

Column Chiral silica gel phase based on the selector poly N methacryloyl L leucine tert butyl amide 670 mm 40 mm eluent ethyl acetate flow rate 80 ml min UV detection 270 nm temperature 24 C.

Column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 250 mm 20 mm 5 m eluent isopropanol with 1 water and 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid isohexane 30 70 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 35 C. .

The pharmacological effect of the compounds according to the invention can be shown in the following assays 

Rabbits are anesthetized and sacrificed by intravenous injection of thiopental sodium about 50 mg kg and exsanguinated. The saphenous artery is removed and divided into rings 3 mm wide. The rings are mounted singly on in each case a pair of triangular hooks open at the end and made of 0.3 mm thick special wire Remanium . Each ring is placed under an initial tension in 5 ml organ baths with Krebs Henseleit solution which is at 37 C. is gassed with 95 02 5 COand has the following composition NaCl 119 mM KCl 4.8 mM CaCl 2HO 1 mM MgSO 7 HO 1.4 mM KHPO1.2 mM NaHCO25 mM glucose 10 mM bovine serum albumin 0.001 . The force of contraction is detected with Statham UC2 cells amplified and digitized via A D converters DAS 1802 HC Keithley Instruments Munich and recorded in parallel on chart recorders. Contractions are induced by addition of phenylephrine.

After several generally 4 control cycles the substance to be investigated is added in each further run in increasing dosage and the height of the contraction achieved under the influence of the test substance is compared with the height of the contraction reached in the last preceding run. The concentration necessary to reduce the contraction reached in the preceding control by 50 is calculated from this IC . The standard application volume is 5 l. The proportion of DMSO in the bath solution corresponds to 0.1 .

Investigations on the stimulation of recombinant soluble guanylate cyclase sGC by the compounds according to the invention with and without sodium nitroprusside and with and without the heme dependent sGC inhibitor 1H 1 2 4 oxadiazole 4 3a quinoxalin 1 one ODQ are carried out by the method described in detail in the following reference M. Hoenicka E. M. Becker H. Apeler T. Sirichoke H. Schroeder R. Gerzer and J. P. Stasch Purified soluble guanylyl cyclase expressed in a baculovirus Sf9 system Stimulation by YC 1 nitric oxide and carbon oxide 77 1999 14 23. The heme free guanylate cyclase is obtained by adding Tween 20 to the sample buffer 0.5 in the final concentration .

The activation of sGC by a test substance is reported as n fold stimulation of the basal activity. The result for Example 5 is shown in Table 2 

It is evident from Table 2 that stimulation both of the heme containing and of the heme free enzyme is achieved. Furthermore combination of Example 55 and 2 N N diethylamino diazenolate 2 oxide DEA NO an NO donor shows no synergistic effect i.e. the effect of DEA NO is not potentiated as would be expected with an sGC activator acting via a heme dependent mechanism. In addition the effect of the sGC activator according to the invention is not blocked by the heme dependent inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase ODQ but is in fact increased. The results in Table 2 thus confirm the mechanism of action of the compounds according to the invention as activators of soluble guanylate cyclase.

A commercially available telemetry system from Data Sciences International DSI USA is employed for the measurements on conscious SH rats described below.

The system consists of 3 main components 1 implantable transmitter 2 receiver which is linked via a multiplexer to a 3 data acquisition computer. The telemetry system makes it possible to record continuously the blood pressure and heart rate on conscious animals in their usual habitat.

The investigations are carried out on adult female spontaneously hypertensive rats SH rats with a body weight of 200 g. After transmitter implantation the experimental animals are housed singly in type 3 Makrolon cages. They have free access to standard feed and water. The day night rhythm in the experimental laboratory is changed by the room lighting at 6.00 in the morning and at 19.00 in the evening.

The telemetry transmitters TAM PA C40 DSI as employed are surgically implanted under aseptic conditions in the experimental animals at least 14 days before the first experimental use. The animals instrumented in this way can be employed repeatedly after the wound has healed and the implant has settled.

For the implantation the fasted animals are anesthetized with pentobarbital Nembutal Sanofi 50 mg kg i.p. and shaved and disinfected over a large area on the side of the abdomen. After the abdominal cavity has been opened along the linea alba the liquid filled measuring catheter of the system is inserted into the descending aorta in the cranial direction above the bifurcation and fastened with tissue glue VetBonD 3M . The transmitter housing is fixed intraperitoneally to the abdominal wall muscle and layered closure of the wound is performed. An antibiotic Tardomyocel COMP Bayer 1 ml kg s.c. is administered postoperatively for prophylaxis of the infection.

The substances to be investigated are administered orally by gavage in each case to a group of animals n 6 . The test substances are dissolved in suitable solvent mixtures or suspended in 0.5 strength Tylose appropriate for an administration volume of 5 ml kg of body weight. A solvent treated group of animals is employed as control.

The telemetry measuring unit is configured for 24 animals. Each experiment is recorded under an experiment number.

Each of the instrumented rats living in the system is assigned a separate receiving antenna 1010 Receiver DSI . The implanted transmitters can be activated from outside by means of an incorporated magnetic switch and are switched to transmission in the run up to the experiment. The emitted signals can be detected online by a data acquisition system Dataquest A.R.T. for Windows DSI and be appropriately processed. The data are stored in each case in a file bearing the experiment number which is open for this purpose.

In the standard procedure the following are measured for 10 second periods in each case 1 systolic blood pressure SBP 2 diastolic blood pressure DBP 3 mean arterial pressure MAP and 4 heart rate HR .

Measurement acquisition is repeated under computer control at 5 minute intervals. The source data obtained as absolute value are corrected in the diagram with the currently measured barometric pressure and stored in individual data. Further technical details are given in the documentation of the manufacturing company DSI .

The test substances are administered at 9.00 h on the day of the experiment. Following the administration the parameters described above are measured over 24 hours. After the end of the experiment the acquired individual data are sorted using the analysis software Dataquest A.R.T. Analysis . The void value is assumed to be the time 2 hours before administration of the substance so that the selected data set includes the period from 7.00 h on the day of the experiment to 9.00 h on the following day.

The data are smoothed over a presettable time by determination of the average 15 minute average 30 minute average and transferred as text file to a storage medium. The measurements presorted and compressed in this way are transferred into Excel templates and tabulated.

The compounds according to the invention can be converted into pharmaceutical preparations in the following ways 

100 mg of the compound according to the invention 50 mg of lactose monohydrate 50 mg of maize starch native 10 mg of polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP 25 from BASF Ludwigshafen Germany and 2 mg of magnesium stearate.

A mixture of compound according to the invention lactose and starch is granulated with a 5 strength solution m m of the PVP in water. The granules are dried and mixed with the magnesium stearate for 5 minutes. This mixture is compressed in a conventional tablet press see above for format of the tablet . A guideline compressive force for the compression is 15 kN.

1000 mg of the compound according to the invention 1000 mg of ethanol 96 400 mg of Rhodigel xanthan gum from FMC Pennsylvania USA and 99 g of water.

10 ml of oral suspension correspond to a single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention.

The Rhodigel is suspended in ethanol and the compound according to the invention is added to the suspension. The water is added while stirring. The mixture is stirred for about 6 h until the swelling of the Rhodigel is complete.

500 mg of the compound according to the invention 2.5 g of polysorbate and 97 g of polyethylene glycol 400.20 g of oral solution correspond to a single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention.

The compound according to the invention is suspended in the mixture of polyethylene glycol and polysorbate with stirring. The stirring process is continued until the compound according to the invention has completely dissolved.

The compound according to the invention is dissolved in a concentration below the saturation solubility in a physiologically tolerated solvent e.g. isotonic saline 5 glucose solution and or 30 PEG 400 solution . The solution is sterilized by filtration and used to fill sterile and pyrogen free injection containers.

