---

title: Portable water cooler for use with bagged fluids and bagged fluids for use therewith
abstract: A portable water cooler is designed to accept the placement of bagged fluid therein, leading to the connection of the bag of fluid to a fluid flow pathway, thereby allowing the fluid to be dispensed in a manner such that the fluid is segregated from the internal surfaces of the cooler. The portable water cooler generally includes an internal spike and external spigot through which fluid may flow. Systems and methods for dispensing bagged fluid from such a cooler, including various multi-bag systems and methods allowing for improved thermal control of fluids being dispensed, as well as increased selection of fluids dispensed from the same portable water cooler provide a high level of convenience.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07762429&OS=07762429&RS=07762429
owner: International Packaging Innovations, LLC
number: 07762429
owner_city: St. Louis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060530
---
This application is a Continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 926 604 filed Aug. 25 2004 and now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 165 700 on Jan. 23 2007 which in turn claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Applications Nos. 60 497 530 filed Aug. 25 2003 and 60 545 155 filed Feb. 17 2004. The entire disclosures of all of these applications are herein incorporated by reference.

The invention generally relates to systems and methods for carrying and dispensing liquids. More particularly the invention relates to a container and spike combination for holding and accessing a sealed flexible bag containing fluid and thereby allowing the dispensing of the fluid.

Fluid storage devices and dispensers are used in all sorts of human activities. In one embodiment they are used to transport beverages particularly for human consumption to locations where other means of obtaining beverages would be impossible or at least inconvenient. Commonly such a container will be filled with fluid and taken along in instances such as when a person travels for recreation including going to an undeveloped area to hike to a park for a picnic to the beach or to participate in or observe an athletic event. Principally the containers are used to carry fluid for drinking to decrease the danger of dehydration and heat exhaustion and related injury when outdoors and also merely for comfort when one becomes thirsty. Quite often the fluid storage device is designed to embody thermal insulating properties for maintaining the temperature of the fluid significantly above or below the ambient temperature.

In addition to personal uses such as those mentioned above insulating fluid containers may have public uses. They may be used to sanitarily dispense beverages in food service establishments or the like and therefore regularly are seen in concession stands buffet lines or similar types of locations where storage and dispensing of prepared drinks is desirable but where more permanent structures are not useable. Such containers are regularly filled with water and other fluids or drinks such as coffee tea soft drinks fruit juices or the like. Further insulating fluid containers are not limited to carrying beverages but may also be used to transport non potable fluids.

The insulating fluid containers described herein include those generally referred to by use of the terms water cooler or simply cooler water jug and Thermos . For the purposes of this disclosure the term portable water cooler is chosen since it is fairly descriptive of the device being discussed. A portable water cooler will generally be transportable by one or more persons without the assistance of machines although some embodiments will require a machine to lift or carry for instance the water cooler may be mounted on a large trailer . A portable water cooler will generally not be a system designed for purposeful use only in a single location but a portable water cooler may be built in and adapted for single location use. A portable water cooler generally serves as a storage container for the fluid there inside. That is the fluid generally is not placed in the cooler from an external storage tank for the purpose of cooling or heating prior to dispensing. Also a portable water cooler generally includes an integral spigot or valve for the dispensing of the liquid contained therein to a drinking container such as a cup or directly to a user s mouth. It is generally not intended that the fluid in the portable water cooler be dispensed to a storage reservoir from which it is then dispensed. The water cooler is generally constructed in part of an insulative material or has a built in cooling or heating system to control the temperature of its contents. Rubbermaid Corporation makes a variety of such portable water coolers. Devices such as the military s water buffaloes also fall within the scope of devices herein termed portable water coolers. A majority of portable water coolers used for fluid transport and dispensing are constructed with materials such as stainless steel glass and plastics or some combination thereof that give the portable water coolers a rigid form.

While there are many types of portable water coolers available in the market many suffer from similar problems. A portable water cooler is generally in the shape of a hollow upright box or cylinder which encloses the fluid and prevents it from escaping the container. Fluid is generally added from above by removing the top panel of or opening an access point in the cooler and placing the fluid directly against the interior walls of the cooler inside the hollow interior. The lid or a cap is then replaced. In some portable water coolers the lid seals the fluid inside the container while in others the lid may partially seal the container but the fluid can knock the lid loose and escape if the container is tipped from upright. Fluid is dispensed through the use of a spigot or valve often located towards the bottom of the fluid holding area of the cooler. The spigot is generally a manually operated structure having a moveable valve. The valve is placed in a hole which extends through the outer structure of the portable water cooler connecting the hollow interior to the external world. When the valve is opened the weight of the fluid in the portable water cooler forces fluid at the bottom of the cooler through the hole where it is generally dispensed in a stream to a user generally holding a smaller beverage container thereunder.

Alternatively smaller water coolers may include the spigot or valve in a different arrangement to allow a user to directly drink from the portable water cooler. These may include straws spigots or even just holes where fluid is allowed to flow from the hollow interior of the portable water cooler to the user. Some of these devices require the user to open them prior to drinking generally to prevent spills while others may place the hole on the top of the container so that the user has to tip the portable water cooler generally into their mouth to get the fluid out. In almost all cases the fluid is dispensed under the force of gravity by simply allowing the fluid to pass through a hole in the outer structure of the portable water cooler when the fluid is being dispensed. The walls base and lid of the cooler are generally constructed of insulative materials often various foamed resins to provide that the temperature of the enclosed fluid is better maintained over time when that temperature is different from the ambient temperature.

While these portable water coolers have many beneficial uses they also have clear disadvantages including susceptibility to contamination from various sources. For instance while the portable water cooler is being filled dust or particulates may be introduced into the fluid as the fluid is added to the cooler. Further in many coolers the lid is not necessarily placed on the cooler when it is in use. If the cooler is undergoing particularly heavy use the lid may be left off to allow rapid refilling. This can allow the introduction of foreign matter. Because the fluid is in direct contact with the sides of the portable water cooler if the cooler is not regularly cleaned which may not always be possible buildup of contaminants can result in the growth of biofilms or other microorganisms which could potentially be toxic to those drinking the fluid.

When the coolers are used to dispense fluids the inside surfaces of the cooler can become contaminated with particles of the fluid or items suspended in the fluid. An example of such contamination of the container occurs when a dissolved powdered soft drink mix is held within the container. Powdered soft drink mixes come in a variety of forms and under a variety of trade names but generally are designed to add concentrated flavoring and or coloring to water to improve taste or appearance. Many soft drink mixes also include concentrated vitamins minerals or other enhancers to improve the nutritional content of the soft drink mix as compared with plain water. Many soft drink mixes also include granulated sugar to improve taste. These soft drink mixes are added to water in which they dissolve or are suspended. When a soft drink and water mixture is placed in contact with the interior walls of the container these wall surfaces can adsorb fluid components. Due to such interaction between the fluid and the container or due to other causes tastes and odors from the soft drink mix can permeate the fluid container. This contamination can cause a significant negative impact on the taste of beverages later dispensed from the container. In a specific instance a grape flavoring contaminating the portable fluid container can be partially transferred to later added ice tea creating an unpleasant grape tea combination.

Such container contamination can be particularly problematic when caused by beverages having a strong tastes and odors such as coffee. Sometimes a strongly flavored beverage can so impregnate the container walls that its scent or taste cannot be removed even with a thorough cleaning. This can prevent a portable fluid container from being reused with other flavors of fluids and can even require the container s destruction if the flavor interference is too great for a particular use. Adsorption or other causes of contamination can also make the container unsanitary for future use regardless of flavor.

Another disadvantage of portable water coolers is related to their ability to maintain the desired temperature of the fluid held therein. Most portable water coolers utilize insulation as opposed to heating or cooling mechanisms to provide for lighter weight decreased cost and improved portability as there is no reliance on power sources. These can however have problems maintaining colder or hotter temperature fluids over time. For maintaining cold beverages the insulative coolers capabilities are often supplemented by including ice in the fluid. The inclusion of ice however has various problems. If the fluid is flavored either the ice must also be flavored which can be a difficult and time consuming task to perform and can result in dispensing problems or the flavor of the fluid will slowly be diluted by the ice which can produce an unpleasant tasting result. Some coolers have tried to avoid this issue by including separate ice holders or the like to separate the melting ice from the fluid. While these have limited success at cooling compared to the direct inclusion of ice they also lead to a decrease in the amount of consumable fluid held in the device which requires larger and less manageable portable water coolers to be used for the same tasks.

In accord with the above discussion and for reasons understood to those of ordinary skill in the art there is discussed herein a portable water cooler designed to accept the placement of bagged fluid therein leading to the connection of the bag to a fluid flow pathway thereby allowing the fluid to be dispensed in a manner such that the fluid is segregated from the internal structure of the cooler. There are also included systems and methods for dispensing bagged fluid from such a cooler including various multi bag systems and methods allowing for improved thermal control of fluids being dispensed as well as increased selection of fluids dispensed from the same portable water cooler. Further disclosed are methods for preparing fluids in a bag for use with such a cooler.

An embodiment of the invention provides an apparatus for dispensing a fluid comprising a portable water cooler having a hollow body that has thermally insulating properties and an internal volume within the hollow body a fluid flow pathway connecting the internal volume to the space external to the hollow body and a flexible bag containing fluid and positioned in the internal volume. The fluid flow pathway includes a spike having at least one opening into which fluid can flow the spike being positioned adjacent to the interior volume a spigot positioned external to the hollow body and an enclosed channel connecting the spike to the spigot. In this embodiment the bag contains sufficient fluid that when the bag is placed in the cooler the weight of the fluid in the bag causes the spike to penetrate through a wall of the bag allowing the fluid in the bag to flow into the at least one opening and through the enclosed channel to the spigot. In alternate embodiments the hollow body of the apparatus has a rigid form or is constructed of pliable materials. The spike may be comprised of a shaft and a blade. The shaft portion of the spike may be hollow and generally cylindrical. The blade portion of the spike may be conical including the conical point. Such a conical blade may be a right circular cone having an angle of expansion in the range of about 30 to about 60 degrees. The bag may be constructed of a single ply of polyethylene having a thickness in the range of about 3 to about 4 mil. At least a portion of the fluid flow pathway may be repeatably removable and replaceable. The apparatus may further comprise at least one additional flexible bag containing a fluid and positioned in the internal volume. In alternate embodiments the fluid in an additional bag may be frozen or may be positioned such that after fluid from another flexible bag has been dispensed the wall of the additional bag will be penetrated by the spike. The apparatus may comprise a means to increase the pressure in the internal volume.

Further an embodiment of the invention simply provides a portable water cooler essentially as described above in which the hollow body may take a shape that is generally that of a cylinder that is closed on the first of two ends and may be open on the second of the two ends and may have a repeatably removable lid that can be positioned at the open second end so as to enclose the internal volume. The internal volume may be in the range of about 2 to about 10 gallons.

Generally an embodiment provides an apparatus for dispensing fluid comprising a portable thermally insulating means for supporting a sealed bag of fluid a means for dispensing fluid from the bag of fluid connected to the means for supporting and a means for breaching a wall of the bag the means for breaching sealing the bag to the means for dispensing such that fluid from the bag of fluid is dispensed from the bag only through the means for dispensing.

A further embodiment provides an apparatus for dispensing a fluid including a portable water cooler comprising a hollow body having thermally insulating properties an internal volume within the hollow body a fluid flow pathway connecting the internal volume to the space external to the hollow body a flexible bag containing fluid that is positioned in the internal volume the bag having attached thereto a fitment. The fluid flow pathway comprises a fitting element having at least one opening into which fluid can flow a spigot positioned external to the hollow body and an enclosed channel connecting the fitting element to the spigot. In such an embodiment the connection of the fitting element of the fluid flow pathway to the fitment attached to the bag allows the fluid in the bag to flow into the at least one opening and through the enclosed channel to the spigot.

The internal volume is enclosed by a lid that is designed to be removeably positioned at the upper end of the hollow body . The lid may rest on the upper end of the hollow body or may be attached to the hollow body by any type of connection such as screw threads a compression ring or any other connecting method. In a still further embodiment the two pieces are simply shaped so as fit tightly together by friction when compressed together. Generally when the lid is removed the internal volume is easily accessible. When the lid is in place at the upper end of the hollow body the internal volume is preferably separated from the ambient environment exterior to the portable water cooler as is any substance within the internal volume . In an embodiment the positioning of the lid at the upper end of the hollow body may serve to help prevent the loss of fluid from within the hollow body particularly in the event that the portable water cooler is tilted from the upright position shown in . Note that while the internal volume of the embodiment shown in is designed to hold a maximum volume of fluid of about 5 gallons this volume capacity is by no means required and the portable water cooler can be designed to hold any maximum volume including maximum volumes from a milliliter or less up to tens of gallons.

In an alternate embodiment the portable water cooler is constructed of generally flexible or pliable materials as is discussed in Provisional Patent Application No. 60 545 155 which is incorporated herein by reference. While coolers constructed of flexible materials are commonly known they are generally not known to be used to hold fluids. The use of bagged fluids as described herein enhances the utility of flexible coolers for use in carrying and dispensing fluids. shows an embodiment of a portable water cooler constructed of generally flexible or pliable materials. The portable water cooler generally comprises a hollow body that defines an internal volume that may be used to contain a bagged fluid. In the depicted embodiment the interior of the hollow body has a bottom end and side walls which in combination form the boundaries of an internal volume . In this embodiment the hollow body is generally in the shape of a parallelepiped. Alternative embodiments may use cylindrical designs or designs having other shapes that define an internal volume that may be used to contain bagged fluid.

In a further alternate embodiment whether generally rigid or flexible the hollow body may include heating or cooling elements as components of the walls or base to provide for improved temperature control of items placed within the hollow body .

In the embodiment depicted in there is included on the exterior surface of the portable water cooler at least one handle . A handle is an optional component but may be supplied to help with movement of the portable water cooler . Shown in are two handles but that number is by no means required. In further embodiments a handle may be located anywhere on the external surface and may be repeatably removable or moveable between different positions to facilitate transport.

On the outside of the portable water cooler embodiment of there is made accessible a spigot which allows for dispensing of the fluid contained within the portable water cooler . The spigot may be of any valve design convenient for dispensing fluid on demand but will generally be a simple push button type valve that defaults to a closed position through use of a spring or similar biasing mechanism and is opened only when a push button is depressed.

In the various alternate embodiments discussed herein the elements of the fluid flow pathway may be difficult to distinguish from one another and may be somewhat overlapping. For instance the spike and the enclosed channel may be simply adjacent portions of a single length of tubing. As an example see the fluid flow pathway of the embodiment shown in where the spike and enclosed channel portions are portions of a single relatively short length of tubing and it is somewhat arbitrary where it is determined one ends and the other begins. In an alternate embodiment the enclosed channel may be defined by the structure of the hollow body as a channel therethrough and may not have an independent wall structure of its own. Regardless the channel is enclosed in most embodiments so that where there is fluid in the channel reduced pressure at one end of the channel would result in fluid flow through the channel and so that fluid cannot freely flow from the channel under such pressure differential without the spigot being open.

An embodiment of the invention may be constructed new wherein for example the portable water cooler is manufactured to include as part of its permanent structure a channel spigot and spike or is manufactured to mate with a specified channel spigot and spike . Alternatively an embodiment can be constructed by retrofitting an existing cooler to include a fluid flow pathway capable of dispensing bagged fluid. Where a cooler is retrofitted the channel may attach to an already present spigot though in some embodiments none of the fluid flow pathway components will be present prior to the retrofit. Whether constructed new or retrofitted the portable water cooler system will operate in a similar manner. Further in either a new construction or a retrofit the fluid flow pathway may be a permanent component of the portable water cooler or may be designed to be removable and replaceable at will in whole or in part.

Generally fluid is made available to be dispensed through the fluid flow pathway by placing the fluid in the internal volume . Fluid can be placed in the internal volume directly such as by pouring a fluid into the internal volume but preferably the fluid is contained in another structure generically termed a fluid containing structure that is placed within the internal volume to which the fluid flow pathway connects. For instance for embodiments such as shown in in which the fluid flow pathway includes a spike channel and spigot the connection between the fluid in a fluid containing structure and the fluid flow pathway may be made when the spike is made to project into the fluid containing structure by penetrating the outer wall of the fluid containing structure. In an embodiment as in whether or not a fluid containing structure is used when the spigot is closed the fluid generally is held in the fluid flow pathway by the valve of the spigot . When the spigot is opened as a result of the force of gravity the fluid can flow from the internal volume through the shaft the channel and the spigot as it is dispensed from the portable water cooler generally in a stream that can be captured or used by a user.

In alternate embodiments the fluid flow pathway may not be positioned to allow gravity to do the work of dispensing. In such cases after the fluid is connected to the fluid flow pathway the fluid can be dispensed by other methods. One such method relates to a structure designed to put pressure on the fluid such as by but not limited to pressurizing the internal volume outside of the fluid containing structure. An embodiment of such a structure is shown in . While most of the elements shown in are similar to those shown in this embodiment has a pump operatively connected to the exterior of the hollow body and to the internal volume so that a person can pump the pump from exterior to the hollow body and thereby add air pressure to the internal volume . As a result of the pressure in the internal volume being higher than the ambient air pressure external to the portable water cooler when the spigot is opened fluid will flow out until these pressures are equalized. In such an embodiment the pressure in the internal volume may be any reasonable value. In an embodiment a value in the range of about 1 10 psig is reasonable. In an embodiment having a pressurized internal volume the spigot does not have to be in a particular position relative to the fluid in the internal volume in order to obtain fluid flow out the spigot as gravity need not be used to obtain fluid flow. As such an alternate embodiment to that shown in has the spigot at the top of the portable water cooler . In a further alternate embodiment the pump may operate through use of a compressed gas cylinder such as a carbon dioxide cartridge or any other mechanism designed to increase pressure in the internal volume as known to one of ordinary skill in the art. In a still further structure a pumping action is used to draw the fluid out of the internal volume such as is shown in discussed below.

In a preferred embodiment the fluid containing structure comprises a sealed flexible bag as illustrated in . Fluid in a bag may be referred to herein as bagged fluid . The bag may be made of any suitable material but is preferably made of a plastic material such as an organic polymer sheet material and is preferably flexible and pliable and does not impart a rigid shape to the fluid. The bag may however be filled with fluid to a point that the fluid is under pressure forming a relatively inflexible combination when the bag is sealed. The bag also may be of any suitable construction. Preferably the bag placed in the cooler comprises a single layer film wall. In an alternate embodiment a bag may be constructed with several plies of material or a set of bags placed one within another. Such a multi layer bag system may include what is commonly referred to in the art as a secondary containment or an overwrap. For a bag having several layers one or more of the layers may be removed prior to placing the bag in the portable water cooler .

The embodiment of can be used with such a sealed bag of fluid in the following manner. The bag is placed into the internal volume of an upright portable water cooler coming to rest on the bottom end thereof. In such position preferably the weight of the of the fluid in the bag is enough to push the outer wall of the bag onto the projecting spike with sufficient force that the blade penetrates the outer wall of the bag granting the spike access to the fluid inside the bag . In an alternative embodiment the bag can be placed into the internal volume of the flexible portable water cooler and pressed onto the blade by another method such as a force exerted through the hands of the user in order to puncture the bag . Such puncturing by forcing the bag onto the spike may be used in an embodiment of a flexible portable water cooler such as shown in among other embodiments. The embodiment of provides for an alternative mechanism for having the spike penetrate the outer wall of the bag . In particular the bag is placed in the internal volume the lid is closed and the user then forces a portion of the fluid flow pathway including the spike through a hole in the hollow body and into the internal volume also penetrating the outer wall of the bag connecting the fluid flow pathway with the portable water cooler and puncturing the bag in essentially the same motion.

The result of the puncturing of a bag placed in a portable water cooler such as that shown in and is depicted in . As shown in a portion of the structure of the spike projects into the bag thus allowing the fluid in the bag to flow into a hole and through the hollow shaft the channel and out the spigot when the spigot is opened. In this way fluid in the sealed bag is provided with access to the fluid flow pathway so as to be dispensed but generally is prevented from contacting the inside walls of the hollow body . Once the fluid in the bag has been fully dispensed the bag is removed and discarded and the portable water cooler can be refilled with another fluid. Some fluid may remain in the bag after fully dispensing from the bag for example in the bottom of the bag below the level of a hole or otherwise caught in a fold of a collapsed bag but this fluid is presumed to either be purposefully fed into the holes by a user or simply discarded.

In a preferred embodiment the interaction of the bag and the spike is such that after the bag is pierced the opening in the bag seals around the spike thus preventing leakage of any significant amount of fluid from inside the bag into the internal volume . Sealing of the bag about the spike is accomplished when the shaft is sized and shaped so that as the wall of the bag is deformed and broken by the blade the integrity of the wall of the bag remains intact around the entire circumference of the spike . Generally the integrity of the bag will remain intact up to the point of contact between the bag and the spike as well as for some length along the spike in a direction generally perpendicular to the circumference thereof e.g. a cuff as discussed below . In an embodiment the physical properties of the bag material e.g. elasticity promote the sealing of the bag about the spike .

In an embodiment such as shown in the spike includes a cylindrical shaft and a blade that comprises a circular cone positioned at an end of the shaft and having a radius at its base identical to or slightly smaller than the largest radius of the shaft . In this configuration as the bag material is punctured by the point of the cone the opening in the bag is gradually enlarged as the bag is pushed over the cone of the blade and onto the shaft . During this puncturing process the wall of the bag may tend in effect to roll inward and upward along the blade and the shaft thus creating a cuff of bag material that rests along a length of the spike all the way around the circumference of the spike . Having been forced onto the shaft the opening in the bag is sealed against the shaft the opening in the bag essentially exactly matching the shape and circumference of the shaft . To an extent the seal is aided by pressure exerted by the fluid tending to push the cuff of the bag against the spike .

The exact size and shape of the cone and shaft useful for forming a seal for preventing or sufficiently hindering leaks depends on many factors including the dimensions of the bag the materials used in the bag s construction and the type and amount of fluid contained therein among others. While other sets of parameters also may work well a set of spike and bag parameters that is particularly well suited to use in an embodiment includes the following a bag preferably made from a single sheet of polyethylene having a sheet thickness in the range of 1 to 10 mil preferably from about 3 to about 4 mil the bag preferably being rectangular in shape and having planar dimensions in the range of about 12 16 inches by about 14 18 inches most preferably about 14.6 by about 16.6 inches the bag filled with about 2.4 to about 3 gallons of fluid preferably with about 2.75 gallons and sealed with no more than about 100 500 milliliters of air preferably no more than about 300 milliliters and a spike having a smooth but unpolished outer surface having an outer diameter and height no less than about 0.37 inch preferably having a height and outer diameter in the range of about 0.5 0.7 inch the spike topped by a blade that is preferably a right circular cone having an angle of expansion in the range of about 30 60 degrees and more preferably about 35 45 degrees. The angle of expansion as used herein being the angle between two lines lying along the outer surface of the cone and passing through the vertex of the cone the two lines being opposite sides of an isosceles triangle the base of which is a diameter of the circular base of the cone. Given a spike and bag as just described the puncturing and subsequent sealing of the bag by the spike is easily accomplished by dropping the bag onto the spike from a height of about six inches.

Generally for a conical blade as described above the cuff of a single sheet polyethylene bag will have a length height that is fairly constant around the circumference of the shaft and that is about equal to the radius half the diameter of the cylindrical shaft since the blade is symmetrical. For a spike with a conical blade and cylindrical shaft and a 3 to 4 mil single sheet polyethylene bag a cuff of less than about one quarter inch does not seal as well as do larger cuffs . In this regard bags made of laminate constructions generally do not seal as well as non laminate constructions because of the likelihood of unsymmetrical cuffs and in particular the possibility of crack propagation along a length generally perpendicular to the spike which may compromise the integrity of the wall of the bag a distance away from the spike and allow leakage.

In the embodiment of the portable water cooler shown in rather than a spike the fluid flow pathway comprises a fitting that creates the joint between the bag and the fluid flow pathway . The fitting is comprised of at least two elements and that can be joined to form a fluid tight connection. In this embodiment the fluid flow pathway includes an element of a fitting that is designed to allow a fluid tight connection to a correlating element of the fitting located on the bag . An example of such correlating fitting elements is found in threaded pipe or hose joints wherein a female threaded end of one pipe or hose mates to a male threaded end of another pipe or hose. Another example of such a connection is a tapered pressure fitting more specifically exemplified by a first pipe having a first end with an outer diameter that is tapered along a length to a smaller outer diameter at the first end of the first pipe such that this first pipe can be pushed into and securely fit with a second pipe having an internal diameter intermediate between the smallest and largest outer diameters along the tapered length of the first pipe. Various such connectors or fittings using correlating fitting elements are known for use in numerous settings where fluid tight connections need to be made including between a bag containing fluid and a fluid flow pathway and such fittings can be adapted to be used to connect a sealed fluid container such as a bag with a fluid flow pathway such as by manufacturing the bag with a port or an attached hose that includes an element of such a fitting. A specific example of such a fitting for a bagged fluid is provided by Server Products Inc. headquartered in Richfield Wis. USA whose Server Express system includes a fitting element that mates with a fitment in a bag the fitment and bag being produced by Sealed Air Corporation of Saddle Brook N.J. USA under the Cryovac name.

Also shown in the embodiment of a pump is positioned above the lid of the portable water cooler and is connected through a tube to the bagged fluid at the fitting and also through a channel to the spigot . These elements are connected through a valve that allows one way flow of the fluid from the bag to the spigot when the pump is operated. The embodiment shown uses a fitment or fitting element that is originally sealed inside the bag . The fitting element of the fluid flow pathway is a probe that punctures the wall of the bag breaching the bag s seal and connects to the fitment of the bag with a fluid tight seal. The bag retains its integrity up to its connection with the fitment . The connection at the fitting between the fitment and the fitting element maintains the fluid in isolation from the internal volume but allows fluid from the bag to enter the fluid flow pathway and be dispensed from the spigot when the pump operates.

As should be apparent from the above descriptions whether the bag seals about the spike or is sealed to the fluid flow pathway through a fitting the fluid in the bag generally is only in surface contact with the interior surface of the bag and the surfaces of the fluid flow pathway . In particular the fluid is not in direct contact with the inner surfaces of the hollow body prior to dispensing. In this way contaminants including flavors from the fluid cannot be directly transferred to the interior surfaces of the hollow body and vice versa. Therefore even very strongly flavored fluids may be used in the portable water cooler without risk of contamination of the portable water cooler or of a later dispensed fluid. Further even where contamination of the surfaces of the hollow body has occurred a fluid in a sealed bag put into such a contaminated portable water cooler should not pick up any of the contamination since the outer wall of the bag separates the fluid in the bag from the portable water cooler so that the fluid is not in contact with the hollow body . Not only are wall adsorbed contaminants and particulates kept out of the dispensed fluid but also because of the seal between the bag and the spike no fluid external to the bag can enter the fluid flow pathway . Even where there is not a complete seal between the bag and the spike the fluid in the bag will generally have displaced any small amounts of fluid in the internal volume outside of the bag and thereby prevent this contaminant fluid from being dispensed.

Further where a portable water cooler is generally used with bagged fluid the internal surfaces of the fluid flow pathway are generally not connected to the interior surfaces of the hollow body . If components of the fluid flow pathway were to become contaminated in an embodiment they can simply be removed and replaced either as a complete set or individually. This means that once contaminated a portable water cooler does not need to be completely replaced or even limited in use.

One can see that the ability to segregate the fluid flow pathway of the portable water cooler from the hollow body allows for use of the portable water cooler that was previously not possible. For instance the portable water cooler can rapidly be switched between two completely different flavors of fluid with only minimal risk of cross contamination and with only minimal cleaning if any. Further the portable water cooler could even be used to transport a non potable fluid almost immediately followed by a potable fluid without risk to a consumer of the potable fluid especially where the fluid flow pathway is replaceable and has been replaced between such uses.

As an example of use with non potable fluids boat based camping often necessitates the use of natural water such as from a lake or river which is non potable until boiled or chemically treated to kill harmful microorganisms. A portable water cooler can be used to store untreated lake water either directly or in a bag and to dispense the lake water through an embodiment of a fluid flow pathway or a prior art dispensing mechanism. If the a source of potable water later becomes available the same portable water cooler can be used for storage and dispensing thereof simply by putting the potable water in a bag and cleaning or replacing the fluid flow pathway if necessary or retrofitting the portable water cooler on the spot. Such a use allows boat campers to carry only a single portable water cooler which can be particularly important when space is limited such as on a camping trip the components of a second fluid flow pathway and a collection bags.

In addition to new uses for a portable water cooler the bag and portable water cooler combination is also more sanitary. There is no need to penetrate the seal of a bag prior to preparing to use the fluid contained therein and even after the seal has been breached and even with the internal volume of the portable water cooler open to the external environment e.g. while the lid is removed debris can generally not get into the fluid as the fluid is essentially still in a sealed system. Accordingly a bag can be prefilled with fluid in a sanitary manner transported to a second location placed in the portable water cooler and dispensed with little risk of contamination from the second location. Further the chance of fluid loss from spillage such as in a vehicle can also be minimized since the fluid is maintained in a sealed system inside the portable water cooler which is also more sanitary.

Generally the bag may be filled with any fluid which is desired to be dispensed. In an embodiment the fluid is pre filled into the bag and the bag is presealed prior to transfer to the consumer. In such a case the fluid may be water or it may be a premixed flavored drink such as a combination of a powdered soft drink mix and water a juice or a manufactured beverage. In another embodiment the bagged fluid may be provided as a bag that includes a pre measured amount of liquid or solid drink mix concentrate with the intention that the user add water to make the flavored drink. In either case the bag may be designed to be filled with liquid and then sealed by any means known to those of ordinary skill in the art including a reclosable seal such as a threaded seal or a zipper type seal or a permanent or semi permanent seal such as an adhesive or heat treated seal. This seal may comprise the fitment in an embodiment. Also in either case the bags of fluid may be provided to the consumer separately from the portable water cooler . In comparison to traditional bottled or canned drinks the fluid filled bag can allow for improved manufacturing and decreased shipping cost the later potentially resulting from either improved space utilization in the shipping process or reduced packaging weight.

In another embodiment there is provided an empty bag and a separate vessel of powdered concentrated or other type of drink mix. The vessel of drink mix is preferably sized to flavor an amount of liquid that is designed to be held by the bag . Therefore to prepare a container that embodies the present invention filled with flavored fluid a user would purchase the container purchase a bag and mix kit of the appropriate size and of the desired flavor prepare the mix in the bag and seal the bag . The user may then refrigerate or otherwise alter the temperature of the bag if desired and place the bag inside the container.

In another embodiment fluid provision from the portable water cooler can be improved through the inclusion of an ice bag or second flavor bag in the internal volume . The use of such a multi bag kit is shown in the embodiments of . In such a use the user obtains a first bag of fluid and a second bag filed with fluid or ice or filled with a fluid and then frozen in the bag generally in a mold to insure the frozen block fits within the portable water cooler . Both bags are then placed in the portable water cooler one on top of the other. If the second bag contains ice it will generally be placed on top of the first bag within the portable water cooler in order to allow access to fluid in the first bag via the spigot . Where the second bag contains ice the melting ice will cool the fluid in the first bag without diluting it. Further once the fluid in the first bag has been fully dispensed the first bag can be removed and the second bag can be put back into the portable water cooler and now penetrated by the spike to allow dispensing of the melted ice. Alternatively in another embodiment neither the first bag nor second bag is removed after fully dispensing from the first bag but rather the weight of the second bag forces the second bag onto the spike to allow dispensing therefrom. An embodiment with three bags using flavored ice is shown in where three bags and all contain flavored fluid in various different stages of thaw. This embodiment can be used much like the two bag system but with greater versatility.

The multi bag system can provide an increased versatility and selection for a single portable water cooler which previously has been limited generally to use with a single fluid. Using the multi bag system the user can simultaneously carry two different flavors of fluid to be used one after the other. This style of use can clearly be expanded by carrying a plurality of fluid filled bags a single cooler. Further the bags can be arranged so that once one bag is emptied in whole or in part a next bag in sequence is automatically spiked or can be arranged to prevent that action if the user so desires such as by placing a divider between bags that is impenetrable by the spike .

In an embodiment of either the multi bag or the single bag system the bag may be placed in a mold or on a mold to provide a shape to the fluid and bag as the fluid is frozen. In this way the bag of frozen fluid can be of a predetermined shape to provide for easier insertion into the portable water cooler . This mold may either be designed to be inserted with the fluid bag into the portable water cooler or the bag may be removed from the mold once the fluid has frozen. Generally the mold will match the shape of the internal volume of the portable water cooler or a portion thereof but that is by no means required and other shapes may be used. In a still further embodiment shaped bags can be used to provide a desired shape to the frozen fluid.

While the invention has been disclosed in connection with certain preferred embodiments the elements connections and dimensions of the preferred embodiments should not be understood as limitations on all embodiments. Modifications and variations of the described embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention and other embodiments should be understood to be encompassed in the present disclosure as would be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art.

