---

title: Highly sensitive immunoassays and antibodies for detection of blood factor VIII
abstract: Disclosed are antibodies that selectively bind to blood coagulation factor FVIII, and highly sensitive immunological assays comprising these antibodies. Preferred assays can detect FVIII at about 3500-fold below the normal physiological levels, and have a wide array of applications including accurate monitoring of FVIII concentration in pharmaceutical products for treatment of blood coagulation disorders, and determination of FVIII levels in plasma of human patients, including those with blood coagulation disorders such as hemophilia.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08236518&OS=08236518&RS=08236518
owner: The University of Vermont and State Agriculture College
number: 08236518
owner_city: Burlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060713
---
This application is the U.S. national phase application pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT international application Ser. No. PCT US2006 027409 filed Jul. 13 2006 designating the United States and published in English which claims the benefit of the following U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 60 699 584 filed on Jul. 15 2005 and 60 715 978 filed on Sep. 9 2005 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. HL 46703 and RO3 A1057727 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention generally relates to compositions and methods for detecting and quantifying levels of proteins present in bodily fluids such as blood plasma or serum. More particularly it relates to antibodies that selectively bind to blood coagulation factors such as FVIII and immunological methods of using these antibodies in assays to detect these factors in body fluids of patients including those with blood coagulation disorders such as hemophilia.

Blood clotting begins when platelets adhere at a lesion site in the cut wall of an injured blood vessel. In a cascade of enzymatically regulated reactions soluble fibrinogen molecules are converted by the enzyme thrombin to insoluble strands of fibrin that hold the platelets together in a thrombus. At each step in the cascade a protein precursor is converted to a protease that cleaves the next protein precursor in the series. Co factors are required at most of the steps.

The human factor VIII FVIII is a plasma glycoprotein that acts as a cofactor for the serine protease factor FIXa to activate FX in the intrinsic cascade of blood coagulation. Factor VIII circulates as an inactive precursor at a very low concentration in blood bound tightly and non covalently to von Willebrand factor. Factor VIII is proteolytically activated by thrombin or factor Xa which dissociates it from von Willebrand factor and activates its procoagulant function in the cascade Hoyer 1981 Kane and Davie 1988 . In its active form the protein FVIIIa is a cofactor that increases the catalytic efficiency of factor IXa toward factor X activation by several orders of magnitude.

Quantitative or qualitative deficiency in FVIII results in a bleeding disorder called hemophilia A Scandella et al. 1998 Rick et al. 2003 . Severe hemophiliacs number about 17 000 in the United States. These patients can suffer uncontrolled internal bleeding that may result in serious symptoms ranging from inflammatory reactions in joints to early death. These patients can be treated with human FVIII which will restore the blood s normal clotting ability if administered with sufficient frequency and concentration. Hemophiliacs require daily replacement of factor VIII to prevent bleeding and the resulting deforming hemophilic arthropathy.

Several commercial preparations of human plasma derived FVIII of varying degrees of purity are available for the treatment of hemophilia A. These products are derived from blood plasma of human donors treated to remove viruses or prepared by recombinant means from cultures of cells that carry genetically engineered recombinant r full length or truncated FVIII Brackmann et al. 1993 Lusher et al. 1993 Bihoreau et al. 1991 Pipe and Kaufman 1997 Sandberg et al. 2001 .

Unfortunately human factor VIII is unstable at physiologic concentrations and pH and is present in blood at an extremely low concentration. Problems in therapeutic use occur due to difficulty in isolation and purification immunogenicity and the necessity of removing the AIDS and hepatitis infectivity risk.

Accurate assessment of the quantity and quality of FVIII is critical to successful outcome in hemophilia patients undergoing FVIII replacement therapy. Current assays of quantification of FVIII products and concentrates involve bioassays including clotting assays and generation of FXa Langdell et al. 1953 Niemetz and Nossel 1969 Over 1986 Kemball Cook et al. 1993 . Thus currently available assays measure FVIII concentration only indirectly Hoyer 1981 Kane and Davie 1988 Chavin and Fay 1989 Foster and Zimmerman 1989 Fay 1993 Lenting et al. 1998 . Unfortunately such indirect assays exhibit problems of poor reproducibility and lack of precision due to complex reaction kinetics.

A particular problem associated with FVIII preparations is the presence of FVIII degradation product. This is undesirable for several reasons. First much more FVIII is required to achieve a desired therapeutic goal. Also degradation products can interfere with FVIII function by interacting with substrate proteins reducing the efficiency of FVIII activation by the substrates. Use of excess FVIII in patients is also undesirable as it can enhance production of neutralizing FVIII specific antibodies Scandella et al. 1998 El Alfy et al. 2000 Klinge et al. 2001 Lindgren et al. 2002 . Available bioassays for FVIII reflect only the concentration of fully functional FVIII. Thus if FVIII preparations contain degraded or inactive FVIII such products are not detectable by bioassays.

To enhance ability to precisely assess the quality of FVIII preparations in a timely and cost effective manner there exists a clear need for sensitive assays that can determine both the concentration and the biological activity of FVIII in FVIII preparations.

As discussed FVIII is present in the blood of normal subjects at a very low concentration about 100 700 pM . In severe hemophilia patients FVIII concentrations are below 1 physiological concentration. Such low FVIII concentrations are below the level of detection of existing assay methods. A great improvement in the diagnosis and management of hemophilia patients would be achieved if it were possible to accurately measure FVIII levels in the plasma of these patients. Thus both for monitoring FVIII levels in patients suspected of having a blood clotting disorder and in severe moderate and mild hemophilia patients undergoing FVIII replacement therapy there is an unmet need for highly specific and sensitive assays that can detect FVIII at physiological concentrations and significantly below.

The invention provides highly sensitive immunoassays and antibodies capable of accurate detection of FVIII concentration in the plasma of normal human subjects and those with hemophilia. Levels of detection exhibited by particular embodiments greatly exceed those of previously described assays for example by at least 3400 fold. The enhanced sensitivity of the assays is contributed in part by using a combination of two antibodies that can bind human FVIII protein in plasma with high affinity and selectivity following treatment with an agent that causes the FVIII to dissociate from FVIII binding molecules to which it is bound such as Von Willebrand factor vWF .

Preferred antibodies of the invention are monoclonal and specifically bind an epitope on the Heavy chain B domain or Light chain of native human FVIII protein. Binding affinities IC of preferred antibodies are in the range of 50 160 nM FVIII. Antibodies of the invention are particularly useful in in vitro assays to detect and quantitate free FVIII or FVIII fragments and FVIII in complex with vWF in a laboratory or biological sample including a body fluid. These factors can be detected in the picomolar range in human plasma and in sub picomolar concentrations in commercial products containing these factors.

Antibodies of the invention can be used to prepare substantially pure native FVIII particularly native human FVIII from a biological sample.

Antibodies of the invention can also be employed as a component of a diagnostic kit e.g. for detecting and preferably quantifying native FVIII in a biological sample such as plasma from normal individuals or a human subject with a bleeding disorder.

Further provided are novel immunoassays that in some embodiments are at least 3400 fold more sensitive than existing assays and can measure FVIII concentrations as less than 1 pM in a biological sample such as human plasma.

A method for detecting a FVIII protein or a fragment thereof in a sample in accordance with the invention includes a contacting a sample comprising FVIII protein with a reducing agent that releases FVIII from a FVIII binding molecule b contacting the sample of step a with a first capture antibody directed to a FVIII antigen such that the FVIII protein or fragment binds to the antibody and forms a complex therewith c contacting the complex formed in step b with a second probe antibody directed to a FVIII antigen the probe antibody being labeled with a detectable marker to form a complex which includes the antibody of step b the FVIII protein or fragment and the second antibody and d detecting the second antibody in the complex formed in step c thereby detecting the FVIII protein or fragment in the sample. The method can be used to determine FVIII concentration in biological samples and commercial products comprising plasma.

In some embodiments of the assay the reducing agent is selected from the group consisting of mercaptoethanol sodium borohydride dithiothreitol erytritol and ethane thiol.

A highly sensitive immunoassay in accordance with the invention in which capture anti FVIII antibodies are conjugated to fluorescent beads and probe antibodies are detected by flow analysis e.g. using lasers optics micro fluidics and advance signal processing is sufficiently sensitive to be useful for determining FVIII levels in a human subject having or at risk of developing a blood clotting disorder such as hemophilia. Sensitivity of the assay is contributed in part by the very high binding affinity of a preferred capture antibody and by ability of the anti FVIII antibodies used in the assay to bind to FVIII protein under conditions in which the protein is dissociated from FVIII binding molecules such as von Willebrand factor after treatment with a reducing agent. In a preferred embodiment of the method the concentration of FVIII protein detectable in the sample is less than 1 pM.

Human factor VIII FVIII is a plasma glycoprotein that acts as a cofactor of FIXa to activate FX in the intrinsic cascade of blood coagulation. As discussed under normal circumstances FVIII circulates as an inactive precursor at a very low concentration in the blood as a minor component tightly bound to a very large protein the von Willebrand factor vWF Hoyer 1981 Kane and Davie 1988 . Detection of FVIII in human plasma by immunological methods is significantly complicated both by its very low concentration in biological fluids and particularly by its association with vWF. In one aspect the invention newly addresses this problem by providing highly sensitive methods of detecting FVIII in a sample such as human plasma that in some embodiments exceed the sensitivity of existing immunoassays by a factor of 3400 fold or more. The methods derive their extreme sensitivity for FVIII from two interrelated discoveries. The first is that despite the noncovalent binding of FVIII to FVIII binding molecules such as vWF unexpectedly reducing agents such as mercaptoethanol can be successfully used at low concentration about 1 10 mM to separate FVIII from these molecules. Importantly this separation is effected without destruction of epitopes necessary for antibody recognition of FVIII. The second discovery is that anti FVIII antibodies can be isolated and purified having the ability to bind FVIII with high specificity and affinity in the presence of such reducing agents. Accordingly these antibodies can recognize and bind to epitopes in FVIII in its most accessible form free from its natural binding partner the much larger vWF. This feature greatly enhances the level of detection of FVIII achievable in fluid samples in which this protein is normally present at very low concentration such as in plasma of healthy human subjects and more particularly in that of patients with blood clotting disorders such as hemophilia in which FVIII levels are extremely reduced.

In one important aspect the invention provides a highly sensitive method for detecting a FVIII protein or a fragment thereof in a sample. The method includes the step of contacting a sample comprising FVIII protein with a reducing agent that irreversibly releases FVIII from a factor VIII binding molecule. As discussed the presence of such molecules that can bind to FVIII can interfere with FVIII detection in immunoassays. An example of a factor VIII binding molecule is von Willebrand factor vWF with which FVIII is normally associated in the circulating blood of a subject. Any reducing agent can be employed in the method that can cause the separation of FVIII from vWF without destruction of antigenic sites on the FVIII molecule that are specifically recognized by antibodies used to detect FVIII in an immunoassay. Many reducing agents are known e.g. mercaptoethanol sodium borohydride dithiothreitol erytritol ethane thiol and those suitable for use in the invention can be determined empirically by testing for this quality in an immunoassay using particular anti FVIII antibodies under consideration.

A preferred reducing agent for this purpose is mercaptoethanol. As shown below pretreatment of both human plasma and samples containing recombinant FVIII rFVIII prior to immunoassay with this reducing agent at 1 10 mM concentration enables detection of FVIII at levels as low as 1 pM. See for instance Examples 8 and 9 infra.

As is apparent from the foregoing a key aspect of the method for detecting a FVIII protein or fragment is the step of contacting the sample with an antibody directed to a FVIII antigen. In general the method can be practiced with a wide variety of anti FVIII antibodies. As described in more detail below many forms of antibodies and fragments thereof are known. All of these can be used as anti FVIII antibodies in the method. As also described below in another aspect the invention provides monoclonal antibodies that possess unique qualities that render them particularly suitable for detection of FVIII in human plasma and in various FVIII containing commercial products.

In a method of detecting FVIII a first antibody of the subject invention is used as a capture antibody. The capture antibody is directed to an epitope on the FVIII protein or fragment thereof such that upon contact the FVIII protein or fragment specifically binds to the antibody and forms a complex with it. In this manner the antibody captures the FVIII protein or fragment removing it from the sample. As discussed the capture antibody may be a monoclonal antibody or a polyclonal antibody.

The method further includes the use of a second probe antibody also directed to a FVIII antigen. The epitope recognized by the probe antibody is different from the epitope recognized by the first capture antibody. Thus upon binding to its recognition site on the captured FVIII protein molecule the probe antibody contributes to a complex that includes the capture antibody and the probe antibody with the FVIII protein or fragment sandwiched between the two anti FVIII antibodies.

The probe antibody is generally labeled with a detectable marker. Detection of the FVIII protein in the complex is achieved by detecting the marker on the probe antibody. A wide variety of labels may be suitably employed to detectably label the probe antibody such as radionuclides fluors enzymes enzyme substrates enzyme cofactors enzyme inhibitors ligands such as e.g. haptens and the like. Detectable labels also include but are not limited to luminescent probes radioisotopes chromophores fluorophores or heavy metals. Anti FVIII immunoglobulin linked to N hydroxysuccinimidobiotin i.e. biotin can also be an effective probe for FVIII antigen when reacted with a detector e.g. avidin streptavidin or horseradish peroxidase . The peroxidase substrates identified above can be used to generate the color endpoint. The color detectors are most convenient but the invention is not so limited. Other detection systems including radioisotopic luminescent or electrochemical labels can also be employed. See also Examples below illustrating use of several detectable markers conjugated to anti FVIII probe antibodies.

In some embodiments the capture agents antibodies are immobilized permanently or reversibly on a solid support such as a bead chip or slide. In one embodiment the capture agents are conjugated with a reporter molecule such as a fluorescent molecule or an enzyme and used to detect the presence of bound FVIII on a substrate for example a sandwich type assay in which one capture agent is immobilized on a support to capture a FVIII antigen while a second labeled antibody also specific for the captured FVIII may be added to detect quantitate the captured FVIII. In some methods disclosed above the detectable marker is preferably an enzyme. Preferred enzymes are horseradish peroxidase and alkaline phosphatase although other enzymes known to those skilled in the art can also be used in the subject invention.

Numerous types of assays can be used in the subject invention as long as the configuration of the assay allows the antibodies to recognize the FVIII epitopes. Those skilled in the art to which the subject invention pertains would readily understand that any conventional immunoassay which would allow the recognition of the FVIII epitopes can be used in the subject invention to both quantitatively and qualitatively detect FVIII antigen. Such assays include regular sandwich assays wherein an antigen is sandwiched between the bound antibody on a solid carrier and a labeled antibody reverse sandwich assays in which a labeled antibody is reacted with the antigen prior to contact with the bound antibody and a simultaneous sandwich assay in which the antibodies and the antigen are reacted simultaneously. These and other immunoassay methods can be used with the antibodies of the subject invention if they allow recognition by the antibodies of the FVIII epitopes.

The capture antibody which is initially contacted with the FVIII containing sample may be attached to an immunological reaction surface. An immunological reaction surface is a surface that is insoluble in the reacting medium and on which immunological reactions take place for example reactions involved in the enzyme linked immunosorbent ELISA procedure. Typically the surfaces are glass paper or plastic such as polystyrene or polyacrylate. The surface may be the interior surface of a test tube the well of a microtiter plate or some other container suitable for an immunological reaction. Those skilled in the art will know of other appropriate surfaces on which an immunological reaction can take place and which can be used in the subject invention such as glass or plastic beads or rods or paper strips. For purposes of the subject invention such an immunological reaction surface will be one to which the antibodies of the subject invention will adhere.

A particularly preferred surface is a bead or microsphere having physical characteristics and fluorescent properties suitable for use in applications such as flow cytometry. Beads suitable for use as a starting material in accordance with the invention are generally known in the art and may be obtained from manufacturers such as Spherotech Libertyville Ill. Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. and Luminex Austin Tex. . Once a homogeneous subset of beads is obtained the beads are conjugated with a first anti FVIII antibody of the invention. Preferably the bead comprises at least one appropriate fluorescing compound.

Flow analysis operates in a conventional manner. That is the beads are processed by illuminating them essentially one at a time with a laser beam. Measurements of the scattered laser light are obtained for each illuminated bead by a plurality of optical detectors. In addition if a bead contains at least one appropriate fluorescing compound it will fluoresce when illuminated. A plurality of optical detectors within the flow analyzer measure fluorescence at a plurality of wavelengths. Typical measured bead characteristics include but are not limited to forward light scatter side light scatter red fluorescence green fluorescence and orange fluorescence. An exemplary flow cytometric system for simultaneous assay of multiple analytes in a sample including antigens bound to antibodies conjugated to fluorescent beads is marketed by Luminex Austin Tex. and is described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 981 180 the disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

As illustrated in a particularly preferred highly sensitive method for detecting a FVIII protein or fragment comprises contacting a sample with an anti FVIII capture antibody attached to a first test bead having at least one detectable characteristic such as a first identifiable spectral property. As a control the sample is contacted with an irrelevant antibody i.e. an antibody of the same class having no binding affinity to FVIII that is attached to a second control bead having at least one characteristic distinguishable from that of the first bead such as a fluorescent bead having a second spectral property distinguishable by detectors in a flow analyzer from that of a first fluorescent bead to which a FVIII capture antibody is attached. Upon contact with the sample FVIII in the sample complexes with the anti FVIII capture antibody. In the case of the control beads some proteins in the sample may form non specific complexes with the control antibody. The complexes formed on the beads comprising capture anti FVIII antibodies and on the beads comprising control antibodies if such complexes form are detected by contacting the respective beads with a second probe antibody directed to a FVIII antigen labeled with a detectable marker. Complexes which include the capture and control antibodies are then detected and the amount of FVIII protein in the sample is determined by subtracting the non specific binding detected by the probe antibody on the control beads from that of the specific binding detected by the probe antibody on the capture beads. Incorporation of this control ensures that spurious non specific binding can be screened for and subtracted from the determination of FVIII concentration.

Although immunoassays using antibodies attached to surfaces such as beads have been previously described the inventors have discovered that particular conditions tailored to the specific anti FVIII antibodies are necessary to achieve the very high levels of detection of FVIII protein in bead based fluorescent immunoassays of the invention. Detailed exemplary protocols for attachment of FVIII antibodies to microspheres are provided infra for instance in Examples 8 and 9. In general several factors were found to be important to obtain a high yield of beads with appropriately conjugated antibodies and to achieve the observed high level sensitivity of the bead based FVIII immunofluorescent assay.

One important aspect is avoidance of methods such as vortexing and sonication throughout the procedures involving coupling of antibodies to beads. Use of these methods significantly reduces yields by causing the microspheres to disintegrate. Time and speed of centrifugation of beads is also important for recovery. A preferred centrifugation protocol is about 3 minutes at 11 000 12 000 rpm. It is also preferable to considerably increase the pH of the coupling buffer above that recommended by a commercial supplier Luminex to approximately pH 6.0. In addition it is important that the concentration of the capture antibody incubated with the beads during the attachment step not be too high. For example the inventors have determined that for anti FVIII mAb 68 described herein a preferred concentration is 5 g ml which is significantly lower than the concentration 25 g ml recommended for example by Luminex.

Immunological reaction conditions for the disclosed methods are conditions with respect to temperature concentration solvent pH etc. under which the immunological reaction such as the formation of an antibody antigen complex will take place. Those skilled in the art are familiar with the parameters under which such complexes will form. They will know that the temperature cannot be so high or the pH so extreme as to inactivate the reactant. The solvent is typically a selected buffer or other carrier for the reactants. It may be plasma serum or some fraction of these materials. The reaction products including the intermediate reaction products of this invention are soluble in the reaction solvent. Any suitable immunological reaction conditions which allow the recognition of the epitopes by the antibodies of the subject invention may be used in the methods of the invention. Further details of suitable immunological reaction conditions for specific immunoassays including ELISA sandwich assays and bead based fluorescent assays are described in Examples below.

The samples which can be analyzed using the methods of the subject invention can be obtained from any vertebrate species in which one is interested in determining the FVIII content of the sample. Preferably the vertebrate species is a warm blooded vertebrate species. Such warm blooded vertebrate species include but are not limited to human canine porcine bovine guinea pig horse cat monkey sheep rat mouse goat rabbit manatee llama chicken and camel. A particularly preferred subject is a human having or at risk of developing a bleeding disorder.

The sample which is analyzed using the subject invention is preferably a biological fluid. Suitable biological fluids include serum plasma cell lysates urine or products from a tissue culture cell. A person skilled in the art to which the subject invention pertains would readily understand that numerous other biological fluids from the vertebrate species can be used as samples in the subject assay. In preferred embodiments of the subject invention however the biological fluid comprises serum or plasma with the most preferred biological fluid comprising blood plasma.

In addition to their uses for detection of FVIII in biological samples the immunoassays of the invention are especially suitable for analysis of the concentration of FVIII in commercial products containing FVIII or recombinant FVIII see for instance Examples 5 7 and Table III . A bead based fluorescent immunoassay embodiment is particularly useful due to its very high level of sensitivity in the picomolar range for detection of FVIII in human plasma from normal subjects and those with blood clotting and autoimmune disorders as described for instance in the Examples below.

In one aspect the invention provides antibodies directed against FVIII protein or peptide antigens anti FVIII antibodies . As used herein a FVIII antigen or factor VIII antigen means any portion of a FVIII protein or peptide that elicits an immune response. A preferred FVIII antigen is a sequence contained in a human FVIII protein.

Several preferred anti FVIII antibodies useful for example as capture or probe agents in immunoassays for detection of VIII in fluids such as plasma include mouse monoclonal antibodies mAb directed against human FVIII protein. Preferred mouse monoclonal antibodies identified herein as anti FVIII mAb clones 1 24 20 21 23 25 and 68 have been extensively characterized as further described below in Examples 2 4. A particularly preferred antibody is anti FVIII mAb 24. A hybridoma cell line designated FVIII 24 producing mAb 24 was deposited on Jul. 28 2005 under Accession Number PTA 6890 with the American Type Culture Collection ATCC at 10801 University Boulevard Manassas Va. 20110 2209 USA which is an International Depository Authority IDA listed in MPEP 2405 as being recognized under the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure. These deposits were made under the provisions of the Budapest Treaty and the regulations thereunder. All restrictions on the availability to the public of the deposited material will be irrevocably removed upon the granting of the patent except for the requirements specified in 37 C.F.R. 1.808 b and the term of the deposit will comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.806.

In some embodiments the capture agents are referred to as first antibodies. An antibody useful as capture or probe antibody for FVIII may be a full length antibody or a fragment thereof which includes an antigen binding portion of an antibody. The term antigen binding portion as used herein refers to one or more fragments of an antibody that retain the ability to specifically bind to an antigen. It has been shown that the antigen binding function of an antibody can be performed by fragments of a full length antibody. Examples of binding fragments encompassed within the term antigen binding portion of an antibody include i a Fab fragment a monovalent fragment consisting of the V V Cand Cdomains ii a F ab fragment a bivalent fragment comprising two Fab fragments linked by a disulfide bridge at the hinge region iii a Fd fragment consisting of the Vand Cdomains iv a Fv fragment consisting of the Vand Vdomains of a single arm of an antibody v a dAb fragment Ward et al. 1989 Nature 341 544 546 which consists of a Vdomain and vi an isolated complementarity determining region CDR .

Furthermore although the two domains of the Fv fragment Vand V are coded for by separate genes they can be joined using recombinant methods by a synthetic linker that enables them to be made as a single protein chain in which the Vand Vregions pair to form monovalent molecules known as single chain Fv scFv see e.g. Bird et al. 1988 Science 242 423 426 and Huston et al. 1988 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85 5879 5883 and Osbourn et al. 1998 Nature Biotechnology 16 778 . Such single chain antibodies are also intended to be encompassed within the term antigen binding portion of an antibody. Any Vand Vsequences of specific scFv can be linked to human immunoglobulin constant region cDNA or genomic sequences in order to generate expression vectors encoding complete IgG molecules or other isotypes. Vand Vcan also be used in the generation of Fab Fv or other fragments of immunoglobulins using either protein chemistry or recombinant DNA technology.

Other forms of single chain antibodies such as diabodies are also encompassed. Diabodies are bivalent bispecific antibodies in which Vand Vdomains are expressed on a single polypeptide chain but using a linker that is too short to allow for pairing between the two domains on the same chain thereby forcing the domains to pair with complementary domains of another chain and creating two antigen binding sites see e.g. Holliger P. et al. 1993 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90 6444 6448 Poljak R. J. et al. 1994 Structure 2 1121 1123 .

Antibody portions such as Fab and F ab fragments can be prepared from whole antibodies using conventional techniques such as papain or pepsin digestion respectively of whole antibodies. Moreover antibodies antibody portions and immunoadhesion molecules can be obtained using standard recombinant DNA techniques.

As discussed anti FVIII antibodies may be polyclonal or monoclonal. The terms monoclonal antibodies and monoclonal antibody composition as used herein refer to a population of antibody molecules that contain only one species of an antigen binding site capable of immunoreacting with a particular epitope of an antigen whereas the term polyclonal antibodies and polyclonal antibody composition refer to a population of antibody molecules that contain multiple species of antigen binding sites capable of interacting with a particular antigen. A monoclonal antibody composition typically displays a single binding affinity for a particular antigen with which it immunoreacts.

Any art recognized methods can be used to generate a FVIII directed antibody. For example a FVIII protein or peptide alone or linked to a hapten or protein carrier can be used to immunize a suitable subject e.g. rabbit goat mouse or other mammal or vertebrate . For example the methods described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 422 110 5 837 268 5 708 155 5 723 129 and 5 849 531 the contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference can be used. The immunogenic preparation can further include an adjuvant such as Freund s complete or incomplete adjuvant or similar immunostimulatory agent. Immunization of a suitable subject with a FVIII protein or fragment thereof induces a polyclonal anti FVIII antibody response. The anti FVIII antibody titer in the immunized subject can be monitored over time by standard techniques such as with an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA using immobilized FVIII protein or peptide. The antibody molecules directed against a FVIII antigen can be isolated from the immunized mammal e.g. from the blood and further purified by well known techniques such as protein A chromatography to obtain the IgG fraction.

At an appropriate time after immunization e.g. when the anti FVIII antibody titers are highest antibody producing cells can be obtained from the subject and used to prepare e.g. monoclonal antibodies by standard techniques such as the hybridoma technique originally described by Kohler and Milstein 1975 Nature 256 495 497 see also Brown et al. 1981 J. Immunol. 127 539 46 Brown et al. 1980 J. Biol. Chem. 255 4980 83 Yeh et al. 1976 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 76 2927 31 and Yeh et al. 1982 Int. J. Cancer 29 269 75 the more recent human B cell hybridoma technique Kozbor et al. 1983 Immunol Today 4 72 or the EBV hybridoma technique Cole et al. 1985 Monoclonal Antibodies and Cancer Therapy Alan R. Liss Inc. pp. 77 96 . The technology for producing monoclonal antibody hybridomas is well known see generally R. H. Kenneth in Monoclonal Antibodies A New Dimension In Biological Analyses Plenum Publishing Corp. New York N.Y. 1980 E. A. Lerner 1981 Yale J. Biol. Med. 54 387 402 M. L. Gefter et al. 1977 Somatic Cell Genet. 3 231 36 . Briefly an immortal cell line typically a myeloma is fused to lymphocytes typically splenocytes from a mammal immunized with a FVIII immunogen as described above and the culture supernatants of the resulting hybridoma cells are screened to identify a hybridoma producing a monoclonal antibody that binds a FVIII antigen.

Any of the many well known protocols used for fusing lymphocytes and immortalized cell lines can be applied for the purpose of generating an anti FVIII monoclonal antibody see e.g. G. Galfre et al. 1977 Nature 266 55052 Gefter et al. Somatic Cell Genet. Lerner Yale J. Biol. Med. Kenneth Monoclonal Antibodies cited supra . Moreover one of ordinary skill will appreciate that there are many variations of such methods which also would be useful.

Typically an immortal cell line e.g. a myeloma cell line is derived from the same mammalian species as the lymphocytes. For example murine hybridomas can be made by fusing lymphocytes from a mouse immunized with an immunogenic preparation of the present invention with an immortalized mouse cell line. Preferred immortal cell lines are mouse myeloma cell lines that are sensitive to culture medium containing hypoxanthine aminopterin and thymidine HAT medium . Any of a number of myeloma cell lines can be used as a fusion partner according to standard techniques e.g. the P3 NS1 1 Ag4 1 P3 x63 Ag8.653 or Sp2 O Ag14 myeloma lines. These myeloma lines are available from American Type Culture Collection ATCC . Typically HAT sensitive mouse myeloma cells are fused to mouse splenocytes using polyethylene glycol PEG . Hybridoma cells resulting from the fusion are then selected using HAT medium which kills unfused and unproductively fused myeloma cells. Unfused splenocytes die after several days because they are not transformed. Hybridoma cells producing a monoclonal antibody of the invention are detected by screening the hybridoma culture supernatants for antibodies that bind a FVIII antigen e.g. using a standard ELISA assay.

Anti FVIII antibodies in accordance with the invention can be characterized by one or more distinguishing features which provide utility in different types of assays. As shown in Tables I and II infra useful monoclonal antibodies in accord with the invention can exhibit varying affinities for FVIII protein and can be directed to binding regions in the B domain H chain or L chain of a FVIII protein.

Some embodiments of the antibodies of the subject invention are characterized by particularly strong binding affinity for FVIII protein. Useful binding affinities IC are in the range of about 50 160 nM FVIII. Some embodiments of antibodies in accordance with the invention are directed to an epitope in the H chain or L chain of FVIII designated H L and exhibit a relative binding affinity IC in the range of about 50 103 nM. See e.g. Table 1 infra. Other distinguishing features of antibodies of the subject invention are described in the Examples below.

In some embodiments antibodies of the subject invention can be conjugated to a variety of pharmaceutical agents such as e.g. drugs enzymes hormones chelating agents capable of binding a radionuclide as well as other proteins and polypeptides useful for diagnosis or treatment of disease. For diagnostic and other purposes as discussed the antibodies of the present invention can be used either detectably labeled or unlabeled. For example a wide variety of labels may be suitably employed to detectably label the antibody such as radionuclides fluors enzymes enzyme substrates enzyme cofactors enzyme inhibitors ligands such as e.g. haptens and the like.

Diagnostic methods are also contemplated including in vivo diagnostic imaging see e.g. A. K. Abbas Cellular and Molecular Immunology pg. 328 W.B. Saunders Co. 1991 . For most in vivo imaging applications an antibody of the invention can be detectably labeled with e.g. I P Tc or other detectable tag and subsequently administered to a mammal particularly a human for a pre determined amount of time sufficient to allow the antibody to contact a desired target. The subject is then scanned by known procedures such as scintigraphic camera analysis to detect binding of the antibody. The analysis could aid in the diagnosis and treatment of a number of bleeding disorders such as those specifically disclosed herein.

Antibodies of the invention also can be used to prepare substantially pure e.g. at least about 90 pure preferably at least about 96 or 97 pure native FVIII particularly native human FVIII from a biological sample such as human plasma. For example native FVIII can be obtained and purified by admixing the solution with a solid support comprising the antibody to form a coupling reaction admixture. Exemplary solid supports include a wall of a plate such as a microtiter plate as well as supports including or consisting of polystyrene polyvinylchloride a cross linked dextran such as Sephadex . Pharmacia Fine Chemicals agarose polystyrene beads polyvinyl chloride polystyrene polyacrylamide in cross linked form nitrocellulose or nylon and the like. The FVIII can then be isolated from the solid support in substantially pure form in accordance with standard immunological techniques. See generally Ausubel et al. Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley Sons New York 1989 Harlow and Lane in Antibodies A Laboratory Manual CSH Publications NY 1988 .

As also discussed above antibodies of the invention can be employed to detect native human FVIII in a biological sample. Exemplary biological samples include blood plasma serum saliva urine stool vaginal secretions bile lymph ocular humors and cerebrospinal fluid. Samples may be suitably obtained from a mammal suffering from or suspected of suffering from a bleeding disorder

For such assays as discussed above an antibody of the invention can be detectably labeled with a suitable atom or molecule e.g. radioactive iodine tritium biotin or reagent capable of generating a detectable product such as an anti iodiotypic antibody attached to an enzyme such as galactosidase or horseradish peroxidase or a fluorescent tag e.g. fluorescein or rhodamine in accordance with known methods. After contacting the biological sample with the detectably labeled antibody any unreacted antibody can be separated from the biological sample the label or product is detected by conventional immunological methods including antibody capture assay antibody sandwich assay RIA ELISA immunoprecipitation immunoabsorption immunoblotting and the like. Any label or product in excess of that detected in a suitable control sample is indicative of the presence of native FVIII in the biological sample. For example antibodies of the invention can be detectably labeled to detect and preferably quantitate native FVIII in accordance with immunological techniques as discussed above such as antibody capture assay ELISA antibody sandwich assay RIA immunoprecipitation immunoabsorption bead based fluorescent assay and the like . See generally Harlow and Lane and Ausubel et al. supra .

The following materials and methods were used as needed to conduct studies outlined in Examples 1 10. Additional methodological details are included in Examples 11 and 12.

Albumin free rFVIII was used as our gold standard in all immunoassays and activity assays Recombinate albumin stabilized rFVIII Hemofile M plasma derived immunoaffinity purified vWF containing FVIII Immunate plasma derived FVIII containing excess molar concentration of vWF Refacto B domain deleted FVIII and Kogenate sucrose stabilized rFVIII Bayer Corporation Elkhart Ind. were obtained from Baxter Healthcare Corporation Westlake Village Calif. . VWF purified MW of 250 000 was a generous gift from Dr. Rick Jenny Haematologic Technologies Inc. Essex Junction Vt. .

Balb C mice were used for immunization with plasma purified FVIII and vWF. Immunization protocols and mAb production methods were similar to those reported previously Foster et al. 1982 Foster et al. Blood . FVIII light chain specific mAb clone 68 designated as F68 was a generous gift from Dr. David Fass Mayo Clinic Rochester Minn. .

3a. Direct binding ELISA was used to determine the binding specificity of mAbs for FVIII. In such assays wells of polyvinyl chloride PVC microtiter plate Falcon Becton Dikinson Labware Franklin Lakes N.J. were coated over night with 50 l of a solution of 5 g ml PBS phosphate buffered saline 0.15 M NaCl 0.1 M sodium phosphate pH 7.2 of full length rFVIII. Excess FVIII was removed by washing the wells with 1 bovine serum albumin fraction V BSA Sigma St. Louis Mo. in PBS. Fifty l of various dilutions of culture supernatants or increasing concentrations of purified mAbs were added to the pre coated wells and incubated for 1 hr at room temperature using an orbital shaker. Following 3 washes to remove excess Ab binding of mAb was detected using horse radish peroxidase HRP labeled goat anti mouse Ig Sigma and a chromogenic substrate KPL Gaithersburg Md. . The end point of reaction was determined after addition of 25 l of 2 M phosphoric acid in a plate reader Bio Tek Instruments Inc. Winooski Vt. at 450 nm.

3b. Competition ELISA was used to determine the relative apparent affinity of each mAb for FVIII. Wells of PVC microtiter plate were coated with 50 l of 5 g ml PBS of rFVIII. First we determined mAb containing culture supernatant dilution or mAb concentration that was not in excess of the immobilized antigen. Using the direct binding assay described above the culture supernatant dilution or mAb concentration at which 50 binding was achieved was ascertained. Inhibition of binding of mAbs to FVIII was determined by adding 25 l of mAb containing culture supernatant or purified mAb at 50 binding and 25 l of free rFVIII 0.6 400 nM 2 fold dilutions . The percent inhibition is the ratio of ODin the presence of BSA ODin the presence of FVIII ODin the presence of BSA 100. The relative affinity IC is the FVIII concentration nM that inhibits 50 of the binding of mAb to immobilized FVIII.

3c. Double sandwich mAb immunoassay was utilized for quantification of various FVIII products FVIII vWF preparations and determination of FVIII specific activity. In such assays one FVIII specific monoclonal Fab fragment was immobilized in the wells of microtiter plate. Various dilutions or concentrations 10 0.04 nM 3 fold dilutions of FVIII or FVIII vWF complex were added to the pre coated wells. FVIII binding was probed with a different FVIII specific mAb or anti vWF mAb. Binding of this second mAb was detected using HRP anti mouse FC Sigma and a chromogenic substrate as described above. Unless it is specified all FVIII immunoassays were carried out in the presence PBS.

3d. A double Ab sandwich assay was utilized to determine concentration of vWF in FVIII concentrates. In such assay purified vWF or FVIII concentrates containing vWF were immobilized in the wells of microtiter plate pre coated with anti vWF mAb. Protein binding was probed using goat anti human vWF also a gift from Dr. Rick Jenny and HRP rabbit anti goat Ig Southern Biotechnology Associates Inc. Birmingham Ala. .

Activated FVIII FVIIIa was used in experiments involving epitope mapping and for dissociation of FVIII vWF complex. Forty g rFVIII 6.5 l of 0.62 mg ml FVIII was added to 12.2 l of HBS buffer HEPES buffered saline 0.15 M NaCl 0.02 M HEPES pH 7.4 containing 0.1 polyethylene glycol PEG MW 8000 Sigma and 2 mM CaCl. Alpha thrombin generous gift from Hematologic Technologies Inc. at final concentration of 20 nM 2.8 NIH units was added and was incubated for 5 minutes at room temperature. The reaction was terminated by addition to final concentration of 20 mM EDTA and 10 M PPACK Phe Pro Arg chloromethyl Ketone Sigma . Activation of FVIII was confirmed by coagulation assay using Automated APTT activated partial thromboplastin time according to the manufacturer s protocol bioM rieux Inc. Durham N.C. and by immunoblotting as described below.

Twenty nM FVIII was mixed with 40 nM vWF in HBS buffer containing 2 mM ClCa. The mixture was incubated for 5 minutes at 37 C. in a water bath. Various concentrations 0.082 20 nM were used for immunoassays.

Immunoblotting was utilized as a complementary approach to assess the blotting capabilities and epitope specificity of each mAb shown in Table I. Immunoblotting was also used determine FVIII concentration in commercial preparations and to confirm FVIII activation. Various concentrations of FVIII were electrophoresed on a gradient SDS PAGE 5 15 and subsequently transferred onto nitrocellulose membranes. Membranes were first blocked in 10 non fat dry milk in PBS 0.05 Tween 20 and then reacted with FVIII heavy chain H light chain L and B domain specific mAbs. Binding was probed with HRP sheep anti mouse Ig Amersham Life Science Arlington Heights Ill. . Proteins were detected with enhanced chemiluminescence ELC Western blotting detection reagents Amersham Life Sciences Piscataway N.J. .

Monoclonal antibodies against Factor VIII were prepared as described in Methods. From eighteen stable clones produced six clones designated M1 and M20 M25 were selected for further characterization. Immunological characteristics of these clones are shown in Table I. Immunological properties of anti FVIII mAb clone 68 F68 see Methods is also included in the Table I. A hybridoma cell line designated FVIII 68 producing mAb 68 was deposited on Jul. 28 2005 under Accession Number PTA 6891 with the American Type Culture Collection ATCC .

As shown in Table I all FVIII clones exhibited apparent affinities in the range of 49 160 nM. Two clones M1 and F68 could be used in immunoblotting for structural analysis of full length FVIII and FVIII fragments and for epitope mapping. Clone F68 binds to protein A thus binding of this mAb to FVIII could be probed by both HRP anti mouse Ig and HRP protein A.

In an exemplary double sandwich mAb assay F ab fragment from clone 24 was immobilized in the wells of microtiter plates. Binding of FVIII to mAb 24 was detected using different anti FVIII specific mAbs as shown in . More particularly show immunoassays in which recombinant Factor VIII rFVIII was captured using anti FVIII 24 mAb Fab 2 fragment. Binding of rFVIII was detected with one of the anti Factor VIII mAbs as indicated i.e. anti FVIII 1 20 and 21 mAbs or anti Factor VIII 23 25 or 68 mAbs .

Binding specificity of anti FVIII mAbs was confirmed using porcine FVIII as compared with human FVIII. A representative curve is shown in in which binding of FVIII to immobilized anti FVIII 24 Fab was probed with anti FVIII 20 mAb. Human or porcine FVIII bound to anti FVIII 24 mAb Fab fragment was probed with anti FVIII 20 mAb and HRP anti mouse FC fragment. The results show that the immunoassay detects human but not porcine FVIII.

Using immunoassays and various forms of FVIII epitope mapping was performed to localize the binding specificity of anti FVIII mAbs. Table II summarizes the binding specificity of mAbs for full length FVIII FVIIIa B domain less FVIII and FVIII vWF complex. Details of the epitope mapping for individual monoclonal antibodies are described infra.

Anti FVIII 1 mAb. Following capture of the FVIII proteins by mAb 24 anti FVIII 1 mAb bound to full length FVIII but it did not react with FVIIIa or ReFacto. This result indicates that the binding region of mAb 1 is located in the B domain. As shown in Table II Clone 1 epitope is sterically hindered when FVIII is in complex with vWF.

The epitope specificity of anti FVIII 1 mAb was confirmed by immunoblotting . More specifically shows immunoblots of reactivity using anti FVIII 1 A and anti FVIII 68 B as probes. Proteins 0.2 g in 50 l were subjected to electrophoresis 7.5 SDS PAGE under non reducing conditions and immunoblotting. Binding of FVIII specific mAbs was visualized with sheep anti mouse Ig and ELC western blotting detection reagents. As seen in mAb 1 does not bind to ReFacto whereas it reacts with full length rFVIII. In contrast ReFacto could be detected using a different mAb i.e. anti FVIII 68 . Monoclonal Ab 68 bound to an approximately 80 kDa fragment consistent with binding specificity for FVIII light chain. This mAb bound both the full length FVIII and ReFacto . Though anti FVIII 68 bound ReFacto it did not exhibit significant binding to activated FVIII and it did not bind to FVIII in complex with vWF Table II . This indicates that the binding region of mAb 68 is sterically hindered when FVIII is in complex with vWF.

Anti FVIII 23 mAb. The epitope recognized by the clone 23 antibody was mapped to FVIII heavy H L chain. Nevertheless its epitope was not found to overlap with that of clone 24 as evidenced by the fact that binding of FVIII to mAb 24 could be probed with anti FVIII 23 as shown in .

Interestingly mAb 23 exhibited preferential binding to activated FVIII as illustrated in . shows the binding specificity of mAb 23 compared with mAb 68. More specifically a sandwich immunoassay was performed in which FVIII or FVIIIa was immobilized on anti FVIII 24 Fab fragment. FVIII binding was probed using anti FVIII 23 mAb or anti FVIII 68 mAb and HRP anti mouse FC. shows that once captured by anti FVIII 24 Fab mAb 23 binds to FVIIIa significantly better than to FVIII. By contrast mAb 68 binds preferentially to rFVIII .

Anti FVIII 24 mAb. The binding specificity of clone 24 was mapped to the FVIII H L chain. The epitope for this mAb is exposed when FVIII is in complex with vWF. This was demonstrated using an immunoassay in which binding of complexed FVIII vWF to immobilized anti FVIII 24 Fab fragment was probed using vWF specific mAb and HRP anti FC . More particularly shows the results of an immunoassay in which FVIII vWF complex was immobilized on anti FVIII 24 mAb Fab fragment and binding was probed with anti vWF mAb and HRP anti mouse FC.

Anti FVIII 20 21 and 25 mAbs. As shown in Table II binding of each of these mAbs to FVIII and FVIIIa protein was indistinguishable. Representative graphs for mAb 25 are shown in . More specifically shows results of immunoassays in which rFVIII and rFVIIIa or ReFacto were immobilized on full length anti FVIII 25 mAb. Binding was probed with L chain specific anti FVIII 68 and HRP protein A only mAb 68 binds to protein A see Table I . Binding in the presence of CaClcontaining HBS is shown in . illustrates binding in the presence of PBS.

The binding region of mAbs 20 21 and 25 is sterically and spatially different from that of mAbs 23 and 24. Unlike mAb 23 these mAbs do not distinguish between FVIII and FVIIIa. Unlike mAb 24 the epitope for these mAbs is sterically hindered when FVIII is in complex with vWF.

The binding region of these mAbs was tentatively mapped to FVIII H L chain due to the fact that both FVIII and ReFacto can be captured by these mAbs and detected using a light chain specific mAb i.e. anti FVIII 68 . A representative experiment is shown in in which binding of immobilized rFVIII or ReFacto on anti FVIII 25 can be detected using mAb 68 and HRP protein A.

Using immunoassays as described above several approaches were utilized to determine FVIII concentration as follows 

a. Concentration of free FVIII for example as found in Recombinate ReFacto or Kogenate was determined using a double mAb sandwich assay in which FVIII was captured by anti FVIII 24 Fab fragment and its binding was probed using a light chain specific mAb as shown for example in .

b. Concentration of FVIII in products that contained vWF for example Hemofile M and Immunate was determined by first using thrombin to activate FVIII i.e. to release FVIII from vWF and then using a double mAb sandwich immunoassay in which binding of immobilized FVIII on anti FVIII 24 Fab was probed using mAb 23 which binds preferentially to the activated form of FVIII as illustrated above for example in .

Immunoassay data for commercial products containing FVIII are summarized in Table III infra. A representative titration curve for one batch each of Hemofil M and Immunate is shown in . More specifically shows results of immunoassays used to determine the concentration of FVIII in products which contain FVIII complexed with vWF. In the example shown Immunate or Hemofile M were treated with thrombin as described in Materials and Methods. FVIII proteins were immobilized on anti FVIII 24 Fab fragment and binding was detected using anti FVIII 23 mAb and HRP anti mouse FC as probes.

Titration curves similar to that shown in were generated for each batch of FVIII concentrate shown in Table III. The concentration of FVIII was determined using a standard curve generated for rFVIII similar to that shown in .

In summary as shown in Table II the epitope specificity of various mAbs of the invention generally divided into three groups i.e. H L chain specific for example mAbs 20 23 24 and 25 L chain specific for example mAb 68 and B domain specific for example mAb 1 . The H L chain specific mAbs differed in their fine specificity as evidenced by their different reaction with activated FVIII and FVIII vWF complex Table II .

As shown above these differences among the antibodies enabled double sandwich mAb assays to be designed in which FVIII can be quantitated even when complexed with vWF see for example and . Availability of a large panel of FVIII mAbs is also useful for quantifying FVIII fragments such as the B domain deleted FVIII ReFacto . By using a combination of heavy light and light chain specific mAbs the concentration of ReFacto was determined to be in the range of 50 77 nM in three different preparations See for example Table III .

For FVIII products that contained vWF a different assay was designed. Two H chain specific mAbs were used one of which preferentially binds to activated FVIII. Thus when FVIII products are activated with thrombin to dissociate FVIII from vWF activated FVIII can be probed with mAb 23 . Using the above described assay the concentration of FVIII in Hemofile M and Immunate can be assessed Table III .

From the foregoing it can be appreciated that the antibodies and immunoassays of the invention can enable precise determination of the concentration of FVIII in various forms of FVIII products and calculation of the specific activity of these products.

The concentration of vWF in Hemofile M and Immunate was determined using a double sandwich assay combining mAb and polyclonal antibody in which vWF was immobilized on anti vWF mAb. Binding to the mAb was probed using goat anti vWF polyclonal Ab and HRP anti goat Ig. Representative data is shown in . shows a standard curve for purified vWF. More particularly the standard curve was generated by immobilizing the indicated concentrations of purified vWF on an anti vWF mAb. Detection of binding was achieved using a polyclonal goat anti vWF antibody and HRP anti goat Ig.

For determination of the concentration of vWF in commercial products containing FVIII the FVIII concentrates were diluted 14 fold with 3 fold dilutions thereafter. Binding was probed as described for the vWF standard curve . Representative results are shown in .

Referring to the concentration of vWF in Hemofile M was found to be 207 g ml whereas the concentration of vWF in Immunate was 1665 g ml. These data indicates that Immunate contains approximately 8 fold more vWF than Hemofile M . vWF Results of repeat experiments with three separate batches of these products showed that the concentration of vWF in Hemofile M was in the range of 153 207 g ml and in Immunate was in the range of 1665 1713 g ml.

Precise determination of FVIII quality in commercial concentrates is critical in the management of hemophilia A. Currently two assays are used for the evaluation of FVIII activity in concentrates i.e. clotting assays for example the activated partial thromboplastin time APTT assay and chromogenic assays Kleinveld et al. 1999 Mikaelsson et al. 2001 Barrowcliffe et al. 2002 Mikaelsson and Oswaldsson 2002 . There are significant discrepancies among these activity assays Lundblad et al. 2000 . The discrepant findings in activity assays could arise from the differences in the standards source of reagents variations in the protocols or the nature of the FVIII concentrate Lusher et al. 1998 Mikaelsson et al. 1998 Mikaelsson et al. 2001 Barrowcliffe et al. 2002 Mikaelsson and Oswaldsson 2002 .

Importantly activity assays describe a complex array of kinetic reactions that could be differ among various plasmas from healthy individuals made immunodeficient for FVIII. For example it has been shown that the response in healthy individuals is significantly influenced by the overall composite of quantitative levels of other hemostatic factors that typically fall within the range of 50 150 Butenas et al. 1999 . Thus when the APTT assay is used to quantify FVIII products different clotting values could be produced.

One approach to overcome assay discrepancies is the parallel use of more sensitive and reproducible FVIII activity assays combined with the use of analytical approaches for standardization of FVIII concentration in these assays. As discussed the monoclonal Abs and immunoassays described herein can be used to precisely determine FVIII concentration in a variety of commercial products. Thus improved assays of FVIII product quality are described herein that utilize a combination of sensitive and reproducible immunoassays to precisely determine the physical mass with activity assays by which the FVIII activity in purified concentrates can be assessed. It is important to emphasize that FVIII activity alone or FVIII concentration alone for example as measured by an immunoassay are unlikely to be sufficient for accurate determination of FVIII quality in concentrates. For example activity assays do not reflect the presence of degraded or aggregated FVIII that have lost function. Immunoassay alone is not sufficient because the biological activity of the measured FVIII protein is not determined by this method.

We have determined that the anti FVIII monoclonal antibodies described herein are not inhibitory in a conventional APTT assay at concentrations as high as 56 nM as evidenced by the finding that the change in clotting time was minimal in the presence of the anti FVIII mAbs of the invention as compared to control mAbs. Therefore the mAbs can be used to in assays to determine the specific activity of FVIII products activity correlated with measured concentration of FVIII .

This example describes a highly sensitive fluorescence based immunoassay system that integrates FVIII ELISA with multi analyte platform technology. The method is useful for example to determine FVIII concentration in fluids such as human plasma and is sufficiently sensitive to detect FVIII in the serum of patients with blood clotting disorders such as hemophilia.

The design of an exemplary fluorescence based FVIII assay of the invention is shown schematically in . Referring to a first anti FVIII mAb is coupled to microsphere beads having a first selected spectral address for example fluorescent bead classification 038 . Following binding of rFVIII or plasma FVIII to the mAb bound microspheres bound FVIII protein is detected using a second anti FVIII mAb comprising a detectable label for example biotin. Detection of the biotinylated antibody is achieved for example using fluorescent streptavidin such as R Phycoerythrin PE streptavidin . In the example shown exemplary first and second anti FVIII mAbs are shown having the respective characteristics IgGb L chain specific and IgG H chain specific. Those of skill in the art will recognize however that the invention is not so limited and that any suitable combination of antibodies can be used.

Referring to the right hand side of specificity of the reaction is determined by use of control beads that are included in each assay. Control beads comprise an isotype matched mAb in this example IgGb with specificity irrelevant to FVIII coupled to microspheres having a different spectral address than the FVIII binding beads for example fluorescent bead classification 026 .

Systems and general protocols for attaching antibodies to fluorescent beads also termed microspheres are available from commercial sources such as Luminex Austin Tex. . To achieve the desired coupling and distribution of the capture antibody on the beads we found that in order to achieve very high levels of FVIII detection sensitivity significant experimentation and modification of a typical manufacturer s protocol was required when using a particular combination of a capture antibody and a bead with selected spectral properties.

The following is a general discussion of the various modifications that are necessary to achieve the highest levels of sensitivity as illustrated in Examples below. Additionally we provide as an illustration a detailed protocol for the preparation of beads used in a preferred embodiment of the invention described infra.

Vortexing and sonicating. We have found that the use of vortexes and sonicators for example as recommended by Luminex are not appropriate in coupling antibodies to microspheres due to the fact that significant numbers of beads break down and fall into pieces using these methods. This is determined experimentally by comparing the yields before and after the coupling procedures. Specifically we obtain much greater yields of coupled beads at the end of the procedure if we did not use either a vortex or a sonicator. Furthermore the assay sensitivity and detection also improves if the use of vortexing and sonicating is avoided.

Centrifugation time and speed. We determined that centrifugation parameters recommended by Luminex result in significant loss of beads. For best yields we increase the centrifugation time to 3 min 2 min recommended by Luminex and the speed to 11000 12000 rpm Luminex recommends 10 000 rpm or 8000 g .

Volumes and pH of activation and coupling buffers. Other changes resulting in increased yield and sensitivity include increasing activation and coupling buffer volumes by 20 over a recommended Luminex protocol. This modification results in improved bead activation and enhanced mAb binding to the beads. Another important parameter is the pH of the buffer in which the mAbs are coupled to the beads. A pH of 5.0 is recommended by Luminex. However we found that a low pH such as 5.0 is not suitable for coupling of our anti FVIII mAbs to beads. We determined that it is preferable to increase the pH of the coupling buffer to above 6.0.

Antibody concentration. One manufacturer s protocol Luminex suggests an antibody concentration of 25 g ml or higher. In contrast we have found that best results regarding sensitivity and FVIII detection levels using much lower concentrations of antibody for example 5 g ml of anti FVIII 68 mAb .

Simultaneous detection of specific and non specific binding in the same sample. A very important aspect of the invention is a built in control for non specific binding that has not been described in any commercial protocol to our knowledge. This is a particularly important step when biological samples such as plasma are used. Because plasma comprises many proteins besides FVIII and heterophilic antibodies that could bind non specifically to beads or probes and increase the signal it is extremely important to be able to distinguish between specific and non specific signals in the assay for example to screen out spurious non specific binding in a patients plasma sample. This method ensures that the observed signal is specific for FVIII.

As discussed above an isotype matched capture mAb with specificity irrelevant to FVIII is coupled to beads that have a different spectral address from that of the anti FVIII mAb coupled beads. For example we couple anti FVIII 68 mAb to beads 038 and control mAb to beads 026. In the practice of the assay identical numbers of the anti FVIII and control mAb coupled beads e.g. 5000 particles of each are added to each well. After capturing plasma FVIII secondary probe antibody labeled with a detectable label e.g. biotinylated anti FVIII 24 and fluorophore streptavidine are added. Fluorescence is then measured by a detector such as a Luminex machine which determines the signals from 038 specific and 026 non specific beads.

Microspheres should be protected from prolonged exposure to light throughout this procedure. All reagents including buffers and microspheres must be warmed up to room temperature before coupling. No vortexing or sonicating procedures should be used in any of the steps below.

2. Resuspend the microspheres by pipetting for approximately 20 seconds. Pipette the mixture up and down a few times using a sterile disposable pipette.

4. If volume to be coupled is less than 400 l adjust the volumes of buffers activation reagents and protein to be coupled. Do not couple more than 400 l in one microfuge tube.

6. Remove the supernatant and resuspend the pelleted microspheres in 200 l of activation buffer 0.1M NaH2PO4 pH 6.2 mix well by pipetting using 50 200 l pipette.

8. Remove the supernatant and resuspend the pelleted microspheres in 200 l of activation buffer 0.1M NaH2PO4 pH 6.2 mix well by pipetting.

10. Add 25 l of 50 mg ml Sulfo NHS diluted in activation buffer to the microspheres and mix gently by pipetting. For best results make the stock just before use.

11. Add 25 l of 50 mg ml EDC diluted in activation buffer to the microspheres and mix gently by pipetting. For best results make the stock just before use.

14. Remove the supernatant and resuspend the pelleted microspheres in 500 l of coupling buffer 0.1M MES pH 6.0 mix well by pipetting.

16. Resuspend beads in 200 l of coupling buffer and mix well. Add 800 l of coupling buffer and spike anti FVIII 68 mAb to obtain 5 g ml mixture 7.5 l of 0.66 mg ml stock mix well by pipetting.

19. Remove the supernatant and add 600 l of blocking storage buffer 1 PBS 1 BSA 0.05 Tween 0.02 Azide pH 7.4 mix well by pipetting.

21. Resuspend the pelleted microspheres in 600 l of blocking storage buffer 1 PBS 1 BSA 0.05 Tween 0.05 Azide pH 7.4 mix well by pipetting.

23. Next day pellet the coupled microspheres by microcentrifugation at 11 000 rpm for 3 minutes. Remove the supernatant. Add 400 l of fresh blocking storage buffer mix well by pipetting and record number of beads ml on the tube.

The following procedures are provided as examples of those suitable for performing various aspects of the FVIII assay fluorescent immunoassay and suitable controls following coupling of the capture and control antibodies to the microspheres. Those of skill in the art will recognize that many other variations are possible and within the scope of the invention.

Plasma pooled from 5 donors was spiked with 35 mM mercaptoethanol and incubated for 2 hours at room temperature using end over end mixing as described in Methods above. After dialysis in phosphate buffered saline pH 7.2 the plasma was immunodepleted on mAb coupled Sepharose anti FVIII 24 23 and 25 mAbs H chain specific . FVIII depletion of the plasma was confirmed using a fluorescence based immunoassay as described in Example 9.

Undiluted FVIII immunodepleted plasma was spiked with various concentrations of rFVIII as described. A mixture of anti FVIII 68 mAb beads and isotype matched control mAb beads prepared as described in Example 9 supra was incubated with rFVIII containing plasma in order to simultaneously measure specific and non specific binding. Binding was probed using biotinylated anti FVIII 24 mAb and PE streptavidin.

Confirmation of FVIII depletion was confirmed by the fluorescence based immunoassay FLI as shown in . More specifically human plasma was immunodepleted as described above and the depleted plasma was spiked with rFVIII and serially diluted or tested without addition of rFVIII. Referring to the results show that FVIII is not detectable by the FLI in immunodepleted plasma lacking FVIII and is detected by increasing levels of fluorescence in samples spiked with increasing amounts of rFVIII.

A typical assay is illustrated in . In this experiment decreasing concentrations of rFVIII 20 0.04 pM was spiked in undiluted FVIII immuno depleted plasma and subjected to FLI. In this assay anti FVIII 68 mAb was used for capturing FVIII and biotinylated anti FVIII 24 mAb and PE streptavidin was used for detection. shows that an anti FVIII mAb such as anti FVIII 68 mAb coupled to a fluorescent bead can capture rFVIII in a concentration dependent manner and that the binding can be detected with a biotinylated anti FVIII mAb in this case anti FVIII 24 mAB and PE streptavidin. The detection level in this assay is in the picomolar range 1 pM assuming a molecular mass of 285 kDa for rFVIII.

This Example demonstrates that the FLI of the invention can be used to quantitate FVIII contained in plasma from human subjects following reduction with a reducing agent such as mercaptoethanol.

In these experiments plasma from healthy human subjects was reduced using 1 or 10 mM mercaptoethanol. For generation of concentration curves the reduced plasma was serially diluted in undiluted FVIII depleted plasma prepared as described above for the standard curve using rFVIII then subjected to FLI. The concentration of FVIII detected in the human plasma was determined by comparison with a standard curve such as that shown in .

Referring to the concentration of FVIII antigen in plasma that was treated with 10 mM mercaptoethanol without dialysis was found to be 1.2 0.17 nM using the standard curve shown in . Referring to FVIII concentration for plasma treated with 1 mM mercaptoethanol was determined to be 0.4 nM. Thus addition of 10 mM mercaptoethanol improved assay sensitivity and detection levels. Consistent with this we have also shown that plasma FVIII depletion on a mAb column is much more successful when plasma is reduced with 35 mM mercaptoethanol.

It appears that 10 mM mercaptoethanol is best for use to determine plasma FVIII concentration. The mechanisms by which mercaptoethanol improves assay sensitivity and detection levels are not known. Without intending to be bound by any particular theory one explanation is that use of this reducing agent results in irreversible dissociation of FVIII from vWF Lollar Fay and Fass Methods in Enzymology 1993 . Thus the FVIII epitopes recognized by the FVIII mAbs may become more accessible for binding to the antibodies.

We have further determined that there is a significant difference between antibody binding to FVIII both in mercaptoethanol treated plasma B and in untreated plasma depending upon whether the plasma is dialyzed before immunoassay. The pattern of antibody binding of untreated normal plasma is shown in and is compared to dialyzed normal plasma. Without intending to be bound by theory one explanation is that improved performance of the assay results not from the dialysis itself but from buffering of the plasma with phosphates. Another explanation is that dialysis removes some inhibitors.

Tests were also conducted to determine whether mercaptoethanol treatment can interfere with mAb binding. For these assays 10 mM mercaptoethanol was added to undiluted FVIII depleted plasma containing rFVIII and incubated for 2 hours at room temperature. The control was untreated FVIII depleted plasma spiked with rFVIII. As seen in the results showed that the addition of mercaptoethanol does not interfere with the binding of anti FVIII mAb beads to rFVIII. Thus the binding of FVIII antibodies to FVIII is not compromised by the presence of this reducing agent in the immunoassay. From the foregoing it appears that assay sensitivity and detectability can be improved by addition of a reducing agent dialysis of the sample or both.

Using the highly specific and sensitive double monoclonal antibody mAb fluorescence based immunoassay FLI integrated into Luminex Multi Analyte Platform technology as described herein free and von Willebrand factor vWF bound plasma FVIII can be recognized equally well. This is shown for example in as determined by spiking rFVIII or Immunate plasma derived FVIII containing excess molar concentration of vWF into FVIII immunodepleted plasma using methods described above.

Importantly the fluorescence based assay of FVIII as described herein can detect FVIII at concentrations significantly lower than 1 mean physiologic concentration. This calculation is based on previous literature reporting that FVIII concentration in normal subjects is about 700 pM. We have determined that concentrations as low as 1 2 pM can be reliably detected using this assay. shows the results of several independent experiments in which the concentration of FVIII was measured in pooled plasma from healthy individuals using the FLI of the invention and was found to be detectable in the range of 1.7 2.5 nM.

It has been determined that the FLI can detect FVIII at concentrations at least about 3500 fold below normal physiological concentrations and is about 300 fold more sensitive than ELISA. shows a comparison of plasma FVIII antigen levels determined by ELISA and FLI in a healthy human population. More particularly plasma FVIII concentrations were determined for 44 healthy blood bank donors in two double mAb immunoassays ELISA and FLI and compared. Vertical lines in define the mean of FVIII concentration in the population tested. Pooled plasma was from 6 healthy individuals. Each point is the mean of duplicate determinations.

Detection of FVIII in human plasma at the level of sensitivity now achievable with the immunoassays of the invention should be sufficient to distinguish between the FVIII protein deficiency in hemophilia and non functional FVIII mutants in which the mutations do not alter the epitope recognized by the mAb.

As discussed the precise measurement of factor F VIII concentrations in human plasma is essential for diagnosis and classification of FVIII deficiencies and prothrombotic conditions. Bio assays measure FVIII concentration indirectly and rely on the generation of activated FVIII FVIIIa via complex kinetic reactions in an individual substrate plasma.

In this Example we describe the development and use of an ELISA immunoassay that measures the FVIII antigen concentration in plasma in absolute quantitative terms not relying on other hemostatic components in plasma. The immunoassay is based upon the dissociation of FVIII and von Willebrand factor vWF by a reducing agent and the use of a calibrator generated by spiking a well defined albumin free recombinant factor VIII into FVIII immunodepleted plasma.

This Example further describes results of the ELISA assay performance evaluated by determining plasma FVIII antigen concentrations for healthy individuals and comparing the results to FVIII concentrations obtained by bioassays activated partial thromboplastin time APTT and chromogenic assays . The reliable detection limit of FVIII by our ELISA is 60 pM. The assay gives equivalent results with natural FVIII including those containing vWF and with recombinant full length FVIII products and concentrates.

Briefly immunoassay data give a mean plasma concentration of 1.2 0.6 nM FVIII. This value is significantly higher than that obtained by APTT 0.65 0.6 nM or chromogenic 0.5 0.2 nM methods. The FVIII ELISA can quantitate FVIII concentrations as low as 5 of the mean physiological concentration. and is suitable for precise determination of FVIII antigen concentration in healthy individuals mild and moderate hemophilia patients and for FVIII concentrates including those containing vWF. Details of these experiments are presented below.

Factor VIII FVIII activity assays bio assays are utilized for identification of FVIII deficiency hemophilia and as monitors of an individual response to FVIII replacement therapy. However the precision and reproducibility of these assays are a source of controversy 1 2 . Currently one stage clotting APTT and chromogenic generation of FXa assays are used for FVIII activity in plasma. Both assays measure FVIII concentration indirectly 1 3 14 . The significant discrepancies among these activity based assays 1 arise from the differences in the sensitivity specificity standards source of reagents variations in the protocols the nature of FVIII concentrates 12 16 and the instability of activated FVIII FVIIIa 17 . More importantly activity assays involve a complex array of kinetic reactions that rely upon the plasma composition of FVIII congenitally deficient plasma and or plasma from healthy individuals made chemically deficient for FVIII. Assay expression involves complex kinetic reactions which are influenced by the overall composite and qualitative levels of other plasma factors 18 . Thus when an APTT assay is used to quantify FVIII products different clotting values could be produced which results in reduced assay reproducibility and precision.

The FVIII concentration in normal plasma is assigned to be 1 unit mL 0.7 nM 0.2 g mL 7 . This concentration of FVIII is sufficient for procoagulant function in healthy individuals 7 . Substantial reduction or absence in circulating FVIII concentration leads to the bleeding disorder hemophilia A. Hemophilia affects approximately 1 in 5000 males 19 21 . FVIII circulates in the plasma with the binding protein von Willebrand factor vWF 7 8 22 23 . This non covalent binding enhances FVIII synthesis protects FVIII from proteolysis and concentrates FVIII at sites of active hemostasis 21 . However the association of FVIII with vWF has hampered efforts related to immunoassay development for quantitative analysis of FVIII antigen concentration in plasma. Precise determination of FVIII antigen concentration and its relation to specific activity is critical for the diagnosis of individuals with pro thrombotic conditions FVIII deficiency and for predictions of the bleeding episodes and management of hemophilia A.

Current immunoassays of FVIII use polyclonal antibodies Abs to bypass steric hindrance of FVIII epitopes by vWF. One major problem with such poly specific Abs is the lack of specificity. Assays that utilize monoclonal Abs mAbs and can quantify plasma FVIII protein directly and in absolute quantitative terms are therefore highly desirable.

As described in Examples above we have developed a double mAb immunoassay system for the determination of FVIII concentration in absolute quantitative terms. This assay relies on irreversible dissociation of FVIII from vWF using 10 mM mercaptoethanol BME 24 . In studies described in this Example we evaluated assay performance by determining the concentration ranges of total FVIII for healthy individuals n 44 using an immunoassay of the invention. The results were compared with those of conventional one stage clotting APTT and chromogenic assays. In all assays we used a batch of highly pure albumin free recombinant FVIII rFVIII as calibrator. The concentration of this rFVIII had been confirmed by absorbance at 280 nm by its 1 1 binding stoichiometry with factor IXa FIXa and by SDS gel analysis. Our results define real plasma FVIII protein concentration in absolute quantitative mass.

Albumin free recombinant r FVIII MW 285 kDa stock concentration 2.2 M 3143 U mL 5000 units mg a gift from Dr. R. Lundblad Hyland Division Baxter Healthcare Corporation was used as calibrator in all immunoassays and bio assays. Immunate plasma derived FVIII containing 40 fold molar excess of vWF established by ELISA stock concentration contained 95 nM FVIII established by ELISA or 100 units mLreported by the manufacturer and Refacto B domain deleted rFVIII MW 170 kDa stock concentration contained 68 nM protein established by 1 1 functional binding stoichiometry with activated factor IX FIXa 25 or 200 units mLreported by the manufacturer were obtained from Baxter Healthcare Corporation Westlake Village Calif. . Immunate and ReFacto were used for partial epitope mapping and their concentrations were determined by ELISA using albumin free full length rFVIII as calibrator and by their 1 1 binding stoichiometry with FIXa 25 see below .

As described in Examples above a series of monoclonal antibodies mAbs directed against human factor VIII FVIII were produced in Balb c mice. Immunization protocols and mAb production methods were similar to those reported previously 26 . Production and characterization of FVIII light chain specific mAb clone 68 was reported previously 27 . All FVIII clones exhibited apparent affinities in the range of 49 160 nM and two clones 1 and 68 could be used in immunoblotting for structural analysis of full length FVIII and FVIII fragments and epitope mapping. Epitope mapping using various forms of FVIII such as full length rFVIII activated rFVIII rFVIIIa ReFacto B domain deleted FVIII FVIII von Willebrand factor vWF complex Immunate in conjunction with immunoblotting indicated that anti FVIII 1 mAb recognizes an epitope in the FVIII B domain but anti FVIII 68 recognizes a region in FVIII light chain. Clone 24 binds to full length FVIII FVIIIa ReFacto and Immunate equally well but it does not blot with FVIII thus epitope specificity of this mAb could not be assessed. Clone 23 recognizes activated FVIII preferentially as compared to full length rFVIII. Anti FVIII mAbs 20 21 23 and 25 all reacted with ReFacto B domain depleted FVIII thus their epitope specificity was mapped to FVIII heavy or light chain. Because these mAbs do not react with FVIII in immunoblotting we could not map their epitopes any further.

Freshly frozen citrated plasma from Red Cross blood bank donors at the Fletcher Allen Health Center University of Vermont was used for immunoassays of FVIII. The donors were Caucasian reflecting the population in Burlington Vt. Human studies were approved by the Institutional Review Board at the University of Vermont. For FVIII immunoassays plasma was diluted 2 fold in PBS buffer 0.1 M sodium phosphate 0.15 M NaCl pH 7.2 containing 0.1 BSA bovine serum albumin and 0.05 Tween 20 Sigma St. Louis Mo. and reduced with 10 mM mercaptoethanol BME Sigma for 2 hrs at room temperature RT . Various dilutions were made in PBS buffer and added to the wells of microtiter plate pre coated with capture mAb described below .

FVIII immunodeficient plasma was prepared in house by reduction of citrated pooled plasma from healthy individuals with 10 mM BME for 2 hrs at room temperature followed by FVIII depletion using anti FVIII mAb columns. Performance of our in house immunodepleted plasma was compared to that of commercially available immunodepleted plasma purchased from PrecisionBiologic Lot D8 09 Dartmouth Canada . Preliminary studies determined that patterns of binding of mAbs to increasing concentrations of rFVIII 0 4 nM in both plasmas were indistinguishable as determined by ELISA. For FVIII bio assays APTT and chromogenic Coatest congenitally FVIII deficient plasma was purchased Lot GK 0884 N8d1 George King Bio Medical Inc. Overland Park Kans. .

The titration behavior of the rFVIII used as standard in all assays in an intrinsic FXase assay is described elsewhere 25 28 . This albumin free rFVIII was used as standard in immunoassays and bio assays. The concentration of rFVIII was ascertained by absorbance at 280 nm using an extinction coefficient of 1.3 29 30 by its 1 1 functional stoichiometry with factor IXa FIXa calculated from the Scatchard plot of bound FVIIIa nM vs. bound free 25 28 and by SDS gel and immunoblot analyses.

Solid phase direct binding assays were used to evaluate binding of anti FVIII mAbs to FVIII and to determine the mAb binding region 31 . Purified mAb solutions were added to the wells of microtiter plates U bottom Falcon plates Becton Dickinson Labware NJ USA pre coated with rFVIII activated FVIII FVIIIa and ReFacto. Binding was probed using horseradish peroxidase HRP anti mouse IgG Sigma and detected by a chromogenic substrate KPL Gaithersburg Md. .

Competition ELISA were performed in the absence or presence of rFVIII 0 200 nM as previously described 31 . The relative affinity IC is the FVIII concentration that inhibits 50 of the binding of a mAb to immobilized FVIII.

For the double mAb ELISA anti FVIII 68 mAb IgGb IC 60 nM was immobilized in the wells of PVC microtiter plate 50 l well of 5 g mAb mLPBS 31 . Plasma from healthy individuals were spiked in FVIII immunodepleted plasma containing 10 mM BME final concentration mixed for 2 hrs at room temperature diluted in PBS and 50 l of each dilution was added to the pre coated wells. Binding was probed with biotin labeled anti FVIII 24 mAb IgG1 IC 103 nM 50 l 5 g mL and detected using HRP streptavidin Sigma 0.5 g ml 50 l and a chromogenic substrate.

Plasma FVIII concentrations were determined using a calibration curve of rFVIII. rFVIII 10 nM was spiked into FVIII immunodepleted plasma in the presence of 10 mM BME diluted in buffer 0 4000 pM and subjected to double mAb immunoassay as described above.

Immunoblotting was utilized as a complementary approach to assess the blotting capabilities and epitope specificity of each mAb. Various FVIII products were subjected to electrophoresis on a gradient SDS PAGE 5 15 and blotted using different anti FVIII mAbs 31 illustrates a selected immunoblot for rFVIII probed with a mixture of two mAbs clone 1 B domain specific and clone 68 light chain specific .

Coatest factor VIII Chromogenix Lexington Mass. was used for the determination of FVIII activity in citrated plasma as described by the manufacturer. Plasma FVIII activity nM in both APTT and chromogenic assay was calculated from their corresponding calibrators generated by spiking various molar concentrations of rFVIII into congenitally FVIII deficient plasma Lot GK 884 N8d1 . In both assays plasmas were diluted 5 to 40 fold in the same FVIII deficient plasma.

Addition of 10 mM BME to plasma results in the exposure of FVIII epitopes for mAb binding 24 . This concentration of BME does not interfere with Ab binding to FVIII as assessed by comparing the binding pattern of albumin free purified rFVIII in the absence or presence of BME which proved to be comparable data not shown . The optimum concentration of BME was established following extensive analyses of the FVIII ELISA assay performance in the presence of various concentrations of BME 0 35 mM . All immunoassay experiments reported herein were performed in the presence of 10 mM BME during assay.

For the double mAb ELISA anti FVIII 68 mAb was immobilized in the wells of microtiter plates. Binding of rFVIII Immunate or human plasma FVIII was probed using biotinylated anti FVIII 24 mAb and HRP streptavidin. illustrates a calibration curve for rFVIII from seven independent experiments. More particularly shows a comparison of binding patterns of equimolar concentrations of rFVIII and Immunate. Four nM rFVIII or Immunate was spiked into FVIII immunodepleted plasma diluted 2 fold with PBS buffer containing 0.1 BSA and 0.05 Tween 20 and reduced with 10 mM BME for 2 hrs. Proteins were diluted further in the same buffer and subjected to immunoassay as described in Materials and Methods.

The results show that anti FVIII 68 and 24 mAbs which bind to spatially and structurally distinct epitopes on FVIII can capture anti FVIII 68 mAb and detect anti FVIII 24 mAb rFVIII in a concentration dependent manner. The reliable detectability limit of this assay is in the 60 pM 17 ng mL range assuming an average molecular mass of 285 kDa for rFVIII 9 . The coefficient of variance CV for 7 independent experiments performed over a period of 4 weeks was 12 5 for FVIII concentrations between 0.06 4 nM.

Assay reproducibility and precision were further confirmed by a quality control that included repeated measurements of FVIII concentration in plasma that was pooled from five healthy donors . More specifically shows the additive effect of spiking various molar concentrations of rFVIII in plasma pooled from five donors. Plasma was spiked with 0 1.0 3.0 or 6.0 nM rFVIII diluted 2 fold in buffer and reduced with 10 mM BME and the various dilutions were subjected to immunoassay. FVIII immunodepleted plasma was used as specificity control. Each point shown in is the mean of duplicate determinations SD. FVIII concentration was determined from a calibration curve of rFVIII similar to that used in .

The concentration of FVIII in this plasma was determined to be 1.2 0.1 nM CV 8 calculated from a calibration curve of rFVIII similar to that shown in . In addition it was found that the assay was sensitive to variations in FVIII concentration as spiking various rFVIII concentrations into normal plasma resulted in an additive effect on plasma FVIII concentration proportional to the amount of FVIII added to plasma . Plasma FVIII concentration following spiking of 1.0 3.0 and 6.0 nM rFVIII was 2.0 4.0 and 7.6 nM respectively which approximates the plasma FVIII concentration 1.2 nM plus the FVIII concentration added.

To evaluate the mean FVIII antigen concentrations and concentration ranges in a healthy population antigen levels were determined for 44 individual blood donors. The results are shown in . Plasma was diluted 2 fold with buffer reduced with 10 mM BME and subjected to immunoassay as described above. Concentration of FVIII was determined as described for . Each point represents the mean of two independent determinations. illustrates that normal FVIII concentration ranges are between 0.4 and 2.5 nM with a mean value of 1.2 0.6 nM. These data indicate that there are significant variations in FVIII concentration among healthy individuals and that the FVIII immunoassay of the invention is sensitive to these variations .

Referring to the plasma FVIII concentration for the same healthy individuals using the APTT assay was determined to range from 0.24 1.6 nM with a mean value 0.65 0.3 nM. With the assumption that the pooled normal plasma contains 100 FVIII activity this molar concentration is equivalent to 97 44 FVIII activity in the healthy individuals.

With the Coatest chromogenic assay FVIII concentration range was between 0.16 and 1.0 nM with a mean value of 0.5 0.2 nM . In the chromogenic assay this molar concentration of FVIII corresponds to 72 30 based on activity.

Overall FVIII antigen immunoassay data demonstrate that the FVIII antigen molar concentration in plasma is higher than that obtained either by APTT or by the Coatest chromogenic assay suggesting that some FVIII is circulating in an inactive form.

We have developed a specific and sensitive double mAb immunoassay format by which plasma FVIII concentrations can be quantified at concentrations as low as 60 pM. One advantageous feature of the immunoassay is the use of 10 mM BME which results in the irreversible dissociation of vWF from FVIII. This is thought to eliminate the binding interference by vWF FVIII binding protein that might otherwise sterically hinder FVIII epitopes involved in mAb binding.

The invention provides for the first time an assay of plasma FVIII concentrations in absolute quantitative terms. This was achieved using a rFVIII calibrator that contained only FVIII protein and exhibited 100 activity based on a 1 1 functional stoichiometry with FIXa 25 28 .

The mean values for the concentration of total FVIII and that of active FVIII were determined by immunoassay and two activity based assays for 44 healthy individuals. The results demonstrated that while FVIII concentration values based upon activity assays are consistent with the commonly accepted mean value for plasma FVIII 0.7 nM or 1 unit mLor 0.2 g mLor 100 7 21 32 34 immunoassay data indicated that the FVIII antigen concentration is significantly higher 1.2 0.6 nM than that observed in either APTT or chromogenic assay 0.65 0.3 and 0.5 0.2 nM respectively . These data suggest that a fraction of the FVIII protein in citrated plasma is not detected by either bio assay. It must be emphasized that FVIII concentrations in all three assays were estimated using a well characterized rFVIII standard 25 28 . This has minimized assay variations that could occur due to the use of different plasma pools as calibration curves and provided an opportunity to determine FVIII concentration in absolute quantitative mass. Variations between APTT and chromogenic assays were further minimized using a single lot of FVIII congenitally deficient plasma.

Comparative analyses between results of the immunoassay and APTT indicated that 38 out of 44 plasmas 86 had higher FVIII antigen levels than activity. Similarly when immunoassay results were compared to the results of the chromogenic assay 43 44 plasmas 97 showed higher FVIII antigen and only 1 44 plasma had higher FVIII activity than antigen . The observation that the vast majority of plasmas contain higher levels of FVIII antigen than activity is consistent with the notion that a significant fraction 35 50 based on comparison of FVIII concentration in immunoassay with that in APTT or chromogenic assay of FVIII is not quantitatively represented in either activity assay.

Without intending to be bound by theory one possible explanation is that in activity assays human FVIIIa heterodimer which is unstable rapidly loses activity due to the spontaneous dissociation of the A2 fragment from the A1 A3 C1 C2 dimer 35 37 . While FVIIIa is produced during the initiation phase of thrombin IIa generation 38 39 it continuously dissociates from FIXa. Therefore FVIIIa concentration as determined by APTT will not reach the actual FVIII concentration in plasma and thus activity based assays are unable to measure the actual FVIII concentration in plasma of healthy individuals. Alternatively it is possible that a fraction of FVIII may be inactive in plasma.

A double mAb immunoassay for the quantitation of FVIII in plasma has been reported which requires that the capture mAb be in a form of an Fab fragment to minimize crossreactivity with rheumatoid factor 32 . The international standard plasma was taken as reference and considered as 1 unit mL 0.7 nM both for FVIII activity and antigen in that study. Plasmas from normal donors compared to this reference plasma contained 1.2 U mLby activity assay and 1.01 unit mLantigen by immunoassay. Thus the concentration of FVIII antigen calibration curve was based on the activity whereas the FVIII antigen concentrations reported herein are based on measurements of FVIII mass and stoichiometry of FIXa binding.

Elevated plasma FVIII concentration is implicated in some prothrombotic states 40 42 thus it is important to evaluate plasma FVIII concentrations by an immunoassay which bypasses the interferences associated with variations in coagulation profiles of substrate and patients plasmas and variations in the levels of FVIII activation. In addition immunoassays of the invention are an important tool for FVIII concentration determinations in plasma of patients who have prolonged APTTs due to the presence of other anti coagulant antibodies such as lupus erythematosus 43 44 .

This Example describes the use of a highly sensitive fluorescence based assay in accordance with the invention and as described above see for instance Examples 8 and 9 to detect very low levels of Factor VIII present in the plasma of patients with blood clotting disorders such as hemophilia as well as levels of Factor VIII found in healthy subjects.

Hemophilia A is a clinically heterogeneous disorder due to the large number of different molecular defects in the factor F VIII gene. In severe Hemophilia A patients this heterogeneity is amplified due to variations in FVIII concentration below 1 physiological concentration. This is evident from considerable differences in bleeding tendency among these patients. As discussed the clinical diagnosis of hemophilia A relies on the bio assays that are not sensitive at FVIII concentrations 

The human factor VIII FVIII glycoprotein plays a key role in conversion of factor X FX to activated FX FXa in the intrinsic pathway of blood coagulation. In plasma FVIII circulates at low concentration and is bound to von Willebrand factor vWF Hoyer 1981 Kane and Davie 1988 Sadler and Davie 1987 . Concentration of FVIII in plasma of healthy individuals is reported to be in the range of 1 unit ml usually translates into 0.7 nM or 0.2 g mL Hoyer 1981 Hoyer 1994 Tackaberry et al. 1987 . By comparison to FVIII concentration in healthy individuals FVIII deficiencies are classified as severe 5 . In severe hemophiliacs FVIII concentration is less than 1 physiological concentration 0.01 unit mLor 

Management of severe hemophilia is particularly challenging due to lack of sensitive and reproducible assays that can quantify FVIII concentrations at below 1 normal physiological concentration in plasma. This is increasingly important as new modes of therapy such as continuous FVIII infusion gene therapy FVIII mutation correction and other prophylactic approaches are developed Chuah et al. 2004 Gilchrist et al. 2001 Hawkins et al. 1995 Hurst et al. 1998 .

As discussed above most common quantitative assays of plasma FVIII and FVIII concentrates are based on bio assays such as one stage clotting APTT and chromogenic generation of FXa assays that measure FVIII concentration indirectly Chavin and Fay 1989 Hoyer 1981 Kane and Davie 1988 Kemball Cook et al. 1993 Langdell et al. 1953 Lenting et al. 1998 Niemetz and Nossel 1969 Over 1986 . FVIII concentration in bio assays is estimated from a reference calibration curve generated from normal plasma pools of healthy individuals. This leads to discrepancies and inconsistencies in the assay results presumably due to variability in plasma FVIII and other components of different plasma pools. In addition bio assays are less sensitive with respect to differentiating among severe hemophilia patients FVIII concentration of 

Accordingly there is an unmet need for reliable and sensitive assays that can quantify plasma FVIII at concentrations significantly lower than 1 mean physiologic concentration. Such assays are needed in pharmacokinetic studies of FVIII replacement therapy gene therapy and monitoring of FVIII antigen levels during infusion in order to avoid excess FVIII administration which could elicit neutralizing antibodies Abs to FVIII El Alfy et al. 2000 Klinge et al. 2001 Lindgren et al. 2002 Scandella et al. 1998 .

Example 11 above describes development and evaluation of an ELISA FVIII with reliable detection limit in the 60 pM range. This FVIII ELISA is useful for quantitative analysis of plasma FVIII in healthy individuals as well as in mild and moderate hemophilia and FVIII concentrates. In order to increase assay sensitivity and the reliable detection limit the FVIII ELISA was converted to a fluorescence immunoassay FLI and was integrated into the Luminex Multi Analyte Platform to develop a sensitive and high throughput fluorescence based FLI for detection and quantitation of FVIII in human plasma as described e.g. in Examples 8 and 9 above. This Example describes additional data from FLI assays regarding sensitivity specificity and detection limits both for normal plasma and that of hemophilia patients and patients with various pathological conditions including autoimmune diseases.

Albumin free recombinant r FVIII MW 285 kDa stock concentration 2.2 M 3143 U mL 5000 U mg a gift from Dr. R. Lundblad Hyland Division Baxter Healthcare Corporation was used as calibrator in all immunoassays and bio assays. Immunate plasma derived FVIII containing 40 fold molar excess vWF established by ELISA stock concentration contained 95 nM FVIII established by ELISA or 100 units mLreported by the manufacturer Baxter Healthcare Corporation Westlake Village Calif. .

A series of monoclonal antibodies mAbs directed against human FVIII were produced in Balb C mice. Immunization protocols and mAb production methods were similar to those reported previously Foster et al. 1983 . FVIII light chain specific mAb clone 68 has been described previously Precup et al. 1991 . Other mouse monoclonal antibodies were generated and immunochemically characterized as described e.g. in Examples 1 4 supra.

FVIII immunodeficient plasma was either purchased from PrecisionBiologic Lot D8 09 Darmouth Nova Scotia Canada or prepared in house by reducing citrated pooled plasma from 5 6 healthy individuals with 10 mM mercaptoethanol for 2 hrs. FVIII was depleted using anti FVIII mAb columns.

Albumin free recombinant r FVIII stock solution of 2.2 M in HBS buffer HEPES 20 mM NaCl 150 mM pH 7.3 was used as calibrator in all immuno and bio assay experiments. Concentration of rFVIII was ascertained by absorbance at 280 nm using an extinction coefficient of 1.3 Kumar et al. 2003 Pace et al. 1995 1 1 functional stoichiometry with activated factor IX FIXa calculated from the Scachard plot of bound FVIIIa nM vs. bound free Butenas et al. 2005 Parhami Seren et al. 2004 and by SDS gel and immunoblot analyses.

For preparation of the FVIII calibration curve rFVIII 1 nM was spiked into FVIII immunodepleted plasma and diluted 2 fold in PBS buffer 0.1 M sodium phosphate 0.15 M NaCl pH 7.2 containing 0.1 BSA and 0.05 Tween 20. Following addition of 10 mM mercaptoethanol BME for 2 hrs the sample was diluted further in FVIII immunodepleted plasma containing 10 mM BME . FVIII containing plasma samples were subjected to FLI see below .

For FVIII FLI freshly frozen citrated plasma from Red Cross blood bank donors at the Fletcher Allen Health Center University of Vermont was used. The donors were Caucasian reflecting the population in Burlington Vt. Plasma from hemophilia patients were obtained from Dr. George E. Rivard The Hospital Saint Justine Montreal Canada and Dr. Edward Gomperts The Childrens Hospital Los Angeles . Human studies were approved by the Institutional Review Board at the University of Vermont Saint Justine hospital and Childrens Hospital.

For FLI plasma was diluted 2 fold in PBS buffer containing 0.1 bovine serum albumin BSA and 0.05 Tween 20 and reduced with 10 mM BME for 2 hrs at room temperature. Various dilutions were made in FVIII immunodepleted plasma also reduced with 10 mM BME to prevent vWF binding to FVIII and added to the wells of microtiter plate containing mAb beads as described below.

FLI FVIII ELISA was integrated into the Luminex Multi Analyte Platform LMAP as described above. Briefly microsphere beads with predefined 658 712 nm emission ratios Luminex classification 038 were coupled to anti FVIII 68 mAb IgG2b according to the manufacturer s instructions Luminex Corporation Austin Tex. USA . The binding of FVIII to mAb beads was probed with biotinylated anti FVIII 24 mAb IgG1 and detected using R Phycoerythrin PE coupled streptavidin as described above. Briefly fifty l of anti FVIII 68 mAb beads 5 10beads 50 l were added to the wells of a microtiter plate wells were covered with 1.2 m PVDF membrane Multi Screen filter plates part MABV N1250 Millipore Corporation Billerica Mass. . Fifty l of various concentrations of rFVIII or plasma dilutions in FVIII immunodepleted plasma were added to the beads. Following a 3 hr incubation at room temperature excess antigen was removed. One hundred l of biotinylated anti FVIII 24 mAb 10 g mLPBS 1 BSA 0.05 Tween 20 was added for an additional 1 hr. Following three more washes the beads were reacted for 30 min with PE streptavidin 100 l of 5 g mLprobe in PBS 1 BSA 0.05 Tween 20 .

Non specific binding controls were performed by using an isotype matched mAb with a specificity irrelevant to FVIII coupled to microsphere beads with a different 658 712 nm emission ratios Luminex classification 027 than those used for anti FVIII 68. The Luminex technology permits the specific and non specific binding signal to be determined simultaneously in real time. Data are reported as mean fluorescence intensity units representing intensity for anti FVIII mAb beads minus that measured for control mAb beads.

Activated Partial Thromboplastin time APTT bioMerieux Durham N.C. was performed as described by the manufacturer. APTT calibrator was generated by spiking increasing concentrations of rFVIII into FVIII immunodepleted plasma PrecisionBiologic Lot D8 09 followed by clot time determination. In all immunoassays and bioassays a single lot of FVIII deficient plasma was used and plasmas were diluted 1 to 40 fold in the same FVIII deficient plasma.

The success of this FLI relies in part on the addition of 10 mM BME to plasma to expose FVIII epitopes for mAb binding Lollar et al. 1993 . We have determined that this concentration of BME does not interfere with antibody binding. All immunoassay experiments described in this Example were performed in the presence of 10 mM BME during assay.

There is no significant difference between the calibration curve generated in our in house FVIII immunodepleted plasma and that generated in the FVIII immunodepleted plasma from the commercial source PrecisionBiologic . The difference between these two FVIII deficient plasmas is that our in house immunodepleted plasma is reduced with 10 mM BME before depleting FVIII with anti FVIII mAbs and it also contains physiological concentrations of vWF. The Commercial plasma is depleted of FVIII using anti vWF Abs thus there is no detectable FVIII established by ELISA and FLI or vWF established by ELISA .

We next tested the assay reliable detection limits in plasma. rFVIII concentrations ranging from 0.25 20 pM were spiked into FVIII immunodepleted plasma and subjected to FLI. The reliable detection limit in whole plasma was in the 2 pM range. Overall assay coefficient of variation at concentrations between 2 20 pM was between 12 16 . Thus this FLI can measure FVIII concentrations significantly below 1 physiological concentration in plasma .

The binding pattern of plasma FVIII pooled from 6 healthy individuals was evaluated to determine the physiological concentration of FVIII in plasma by FLI . Referring to pooled plasma from 6 donors was diluted in immunodepleted plasma 1 1 and then in PBS buffer 2 fold was reduced with 10 mM BME. Several dilutions were made in FVIII immunodepleted plasma and subjected to FLI. Immunodepleted plasma similarly treated was used as negative control. FVIII antigen concentration was determined from a calibration graph of rFVIII similar to that shown in . Each point is the mean of duplicate determinations SD.

A mean concentration of 1.3 0.2 CV 15 was obtained from 4 independent experiments using a standard curve similar to that shown in . This value is generally consistent with FVIII concentration obtained by ELISA 1.2 0.1 nM .

We further evaluated FLI by measuring plasma FVIII concentration and ranges in the same 44 healthy individuals for which FVIII concentrations had been determined by ELISA as described above. Data are illustrated in . Plasma from red cross donors were diluted 2 fold in immunodepleted plasma and an additional 2 fold in PBS buffer reduced with 10 mM BME and various final dilutions 500 and 1000 fold were made in immunodepleted plasma and subjected to FLI. Mean FVIII concentration for healthy population was 1 0.4 nM. FVIII concentrations were determined from a calibration graph of rFVIII similar to that shown in . Each point in is the mean of concentrations obtained for 4 8 independent determinations SD. The data indicate that there are significant variations in FVIII concentration among healthy individuals ranging from 0.3 2.1 nM with a mean value of 1.0 0.4 nM. These data are generally consistent with FVIII concentration obtained by ELISA FVIII concentration range 0.4 2.5 nM with mean concentration of 1.2 0.6 nM . Overall the results of FVIII FLI confirms our previous finding that the mean FVIII antigen concentration in plasma is significantly higher 30 than that reported by the activity based assay 0.7 nM Girma et al. 1998 Hoyer 1981 Hoyer 1994 Hubbard and Heath 2004 Ingerslev et al. 2004 .

To determine the assay dynamics and sensitivity to variations in FVIII concentration plasma FVIII concentrations were determined for plasmas from severe moderate and mild hemophilia patients n 19 with wide ranges of FVIII concentration. illustrates the results of FVIII antigen concentration in hemophilia in comparison to that obtained by our in house APTT assay. Comparison of plasma FVIII concentrations of hemophilia patients is indicated by FLI and APTT . For FLI plasmas were diluted 2 fold in immunodepleted plasma reduced with 10 mM BME and subjected to FLI. FVIII antigen concentrations were determined from a calibration graph of rFVIII similar to that shown in . For APTT plasmas were used undiluted. APTT calibrator was generated by spiking rFVIII into FVIII immunodepleted plasma Precision Biologics . illustrates relationships between FVIII antigen concentration as determined by FLI and APTT 4 patients whose APTT and FLI did not correlate were excluded .

In both assays calibration curves were generated by spiking rFVIII into a single lot of FVIII immunodepleted plasma from the commercial source Precision Biologic . Comparison of FLI results with the results of APTT indicated that in general there is a good correlation between FVIII concentration determined by FLI and that determined by APTT in hemophilia patients. However in two patients 10 antigen concentration appeared to be significantly higher 2 fold than FVIII concentration by APTT and in two patients 10 FVIII concentration by APTT was significantly higher 2 fold than FVIII antigen . With the exception of these four patients there was a linear correlation between FVIII antigen concentration FLI and FVIII activity APTT Pearson r 0.97 R squared 0.94 .

Additional studies were performed on plasmas from children n 100 with various pathological conditions including hemophilia patients and patients with autoimmune disorders . More particularly comparison of FVIII concentrations and ranges in patients n 100 with various diseases including autoimmune and FVIII deficiency determined by FLI and APTT is shown in . For FLI plasmas were diluted 2 fold in FVIII depleted plasma and an additional 2 fold with PBS buffer reduced with 10 mM BME diluted further 4 10 and 20 fold and subjected to FLI. FVIII concentrations were determined from high range calibrator similar to that shown in . For APTT plasmas were diluted 5 and 10 fold in FVIII immunodepleted plasma Precision Biologic and subjected to APTT. APTT calibrator was generated by spiking rFVIII or Immunate into FVIII depleted plasma Precision Biologic . shows correlation between plasma FVIII concentration by FLI and APTT.

The patient populations included those with a significant amount of auto and anti coagulant antibodies. Results illustrated in indicate that there are significant variations in FVIII concentration among these patients and that FLI is sensitive to low as well as high FVIII concentrations over a range of 3 orders of magnitude 2 4000 pM . When the results of FVIII antigen concentration were compared to our in house APTT mean FVIII concentration by FLI was 2.6 fold higher 1424 1024 pM than the FVIII concentration by APTT 556 375 . These data show that plasma FVIII concentration is 39 higher by FLI as compared to APTT consistent with our FVIII results for 44 healthy individuals showing that the concentration of plasma FVIII by FLI is 30 higher than that obtained by APTT. Despite significant variations in FVIII concentration among patients there is a linear correlation between the results of FLI and APTT with Pearson r of 0.8 R squared 0.64 .

Our APTT assay was performed with a FVIII immunodepleted plasma substrate that was also depleted of vWF. In order to determine whether absence of vWF could result in significant differences between FVIII antigen results FLI and those obtained by APTT we used Immunate as FVIII calibrator. The concentration of Immunate was verified by ELISA FLI and 1 1 functional stoichiometry Butenas et al. 2004 Parhami Seren et al. 2004 . Immunate contained 40 fold molar excess molar of vWF as established by ELISA. illustrates the results of plasma FVIII concentration determination using either rFVIII or Immunate as calibrator. shows a comparison of plasma FVIII concentrations calculated from rFVIII and Immunate calibrators. is a comparison between FVIII concentrations calculated from rFVIII or Immunate calibrators showing that at concentrations below 1000 pM there is no significant difference between the results of these two calibrators. At concentrations above 1000 pM the Immunate calibrator gives 25 higher FVIII concentrations by APTT as compared to rFVIII calibrator.

As discussed there was no significant difference between FVIII concentrations of up to 1000 pM when either calibrator was used. However at FVIII concentrations 1000 pM Immunate calibrator FVIII concentrations were slightly 25 higher in comparison to the FVIII results obtained from the rFVIII calibrator . This indicates that at high FVIII concentrations absence or presence of vWF results in slight differences in the results of FVIII concentration determination.

These data indicate that FLI can detect FVIII concentrations significantly below 1 physiological concentration detection limit 2 pM 0.16 0.2 FVIII based on 1 1.2 nM FVIII mean physiological concentration obtained by FLI and by ELISA. FLI also quantifies FVIII at concentrations between 2 4000 pM 3 orders of magnitude thus FLI should facilitate quantitative measurements of FVIII in healthy individuals in individuals with prothrombotic conditions due to high concentration of FVIII and severe hemophilia patients and patients receiving FVIII replacement.

FVIII concentrations obtained by FLI were compared with those obtained by activated partial thromboplastin time APTT . FLI exhibited large dynamics by detecting FVIII concentrations in severe moderate and mild hemophilia ranging between 0 4.5 nM. This assay will not only permit FVIII antigen quantitation and further classification of severe hemophilia patients but it can also be useful in pharmacokinetic studies involving FVIII replacement.

In summary we have developed a specific and sensitive assay format by which plasma FVIII can be quantified at concentrations as low as 2 pM. Integration of FVIII ELISA with LMAP technology allows quantitation of plasma at concentrations significantly below 1 physiological concentration. Such sensitivity could not be achieved by conventional ELISA.

Our data using this highly sensitive assay show that the mean value for plasma FVIII antigen in healthy population is about 30 higher 1.0 nM than that reported by activity assay 0.7 nM Girma et al. 1998 Hoyer 1981 Hoyer 1994 Hubbard and Heath 2004 Ingerslev et al. 2004 although significant variations in FVIII levels were observed among healthy individuals. The sensitivity and large dynamics of the assay is evident by its ability to quantify a low range of plasma FVIII from patients with severe hemophilia patients . FVIII concentrations in all experiments were determined from the standard curve of rFVIII thus plasma FVIII concentrations reported here are fundamental measurements of mass of FVIII across healthy and hemophilia populations as well as population with diverse diseases.

The FLI described herein provides an important tool for precise determination of FVIII concentration for the diagnosis of FVIII deficiencies genetic vs. production of non functional FVIII protein and management of hemophilia A.

It is believed that a review of the references will increase appreciation of the present invention. In some instances the references are prefaced by a number in parentheses referred to in the specification.

The disclosures of all references cited herein are incorporated herein by reference. The invention has been described in detail with reference to preferred embodiments thereof. However it will be appreciated that those skilled in the art upon consideration of this disclosure may make modifications and improvements within the spirit and scope of the invention.

