---

title: Management of network login identities
abstract: Apparatuses, methods, and systems directed to facilitate the management and/or security of network login and authentication systems. Some embodiments of the invention allow users to maintain a plurality of user accounts with a given domain, and switch among multiple login sessions. In other particular embodiments, the systems disclosed below can be used to identify and prevent phishing attacks. In some embodiments, the present invention involves using a personal identification number or string as an additional security measure. In some other embodiments, the present invention involves using an application identifier while establishing a login session with the network server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08510813&OS=08510813&RS=08510813
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08510813
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061215
---
The most widely used part of the Internet is the World Wide Web often abbreviated WWW or simply referred to as just the Web . The Web is an Internet service that organizes information through the use of hypermedia. The HyperText Markup Language HTML is typically used to specify the content and format of a hypermedia document e.g. a Web page .

Each Web page can contain embedded references referred to as links to images audio video or other Web pages. The most common type of link used to identify and locate resources on the Internet is the Uniform Resource Locator or URL. In the context of the Web a user using a Web browser browses for information by selecting links that are embedded in each Web page.

When accessing certain Web sites it may be necessary for a user to enter a user identifier and password before being permitted to access data via that Web site specific to that user. For example most financial institutions investment companies and other service providing entities including but not limited to on line shopping Web sites permit a user or client of the entity to access his or her account s via the Internet. For obvious reasons each access is predicated on the user entering certain user specific information prior to obtaining access the user s account. For example to set up an on line account a user may be required to provide certain user specific information such as for example a user identifier and password. Once that user specific information is provided and an on line account is established the user may only access his or her on line account by providing the user specific information as part of a login process. Still further after the user has initially authenticated cookies or tokens appended to messages transmitted by the user may be used by the remote server to allow the user to gain access to subsequent information.

Additionally it is not uncommon for users to share a computer especially in households. For example each member of the household might have an on line Yahoo account and might use the same computer to access each individual account. On the other hand a user might maintain a plurality of on line accounts either at the same web site or different web sites. For example a user might have multiple on line Yahoo Accounts. While it is conceivable that a user may use the same login identifier and passwords for each of the plurality of Web sites such a practice is not recommended. In fact a more desirable and recommended practice is to use different login identifiers and password for each on line account. That will increase security of the user s on line accounts and reduce the possibility of unauthorized access to those accounts if someone happens to obtain one of the user s login identifiers and passwords. However using different login identifiers and passwords for each on line account present its own problems not the least of which is remembering each login identifier and password.

A major type of internet fraud today is known as phishing. Phishing typically involves the practice of obtaining confidential information such as usernames and passwords through the manipulation of legitimate users. Typically the confidential information is a user s password credit card details social security number or other sensitive user information. Phishing may be carried out by masquerading as a trustworthy person Web site or business. In one approach a message such as an email or instant message may be sent to an unsuspecting user. The message may include a link or other mechanism that links to an illegitimate source. In another approach a webpage that may appear to be legitimate is provided to the user. However the webpage is designed to trick the user into providing their confidential information. Such Web pages may relate to account login sites credit card entry sites or the like.

The false site typically contains a request for the individual s password credit card social security number or other personal information. This information if given by the individual is then submitted to the person posing as the bank or popular Web site. Once the unsuspecting user enters their information the phisher may be able to obtain the sensitive information and use it to create fake accounts in a victim s name ruin the victim s credit make purchases under the victim s name sell the information to others perform acts under the victim s identity or even prevent the victim from accessing their own money and or accounts.

The present invention provides apparatuses methods and systems directed to facilitating the management and or security of network login and authentication systems. Some embodiments of the invention allow users to maintain a plurality of user accounts with a given domain and switch among multiple login sessions. In other particular embodiments the systems disclosed below can be used to identify and prevent phishing attacks. In some embodiments the present invention involves using a personal identification number or string as an additional security measure. In some other embodiments the present invention involves using an application identifier while establishing a login session with the network server.

In one embodiment of the present invention the apparatuses and methods are directed to accessing a local token data store implemented on a client system to retrieve one or more identifiers. The accessing step comprises making one ore more application programming interface calls to a domain restrictive data storage application that maintains a local token data store of token information obtains an indication of a current domain context and restricts access to the token information on a server domain basis.

In other embodiments of the present invention the apparatuses methods and systems involve using a personal identification number or string as an additional authentication step before allowing access to authentication related information in the local token data store. The personal identification number or string in one embodiment is stored on the client system and not sent to the network server.

The following detailed description together with the accompanying drawings will provide a better understanding of the nature and advantages of various embodiments of the present invention.

The following example embodiments and their aspects are described and illustrated in conjunction with apparatuses methods and systems which are meant to be illustrative examples not limiting in scope.

As illustrates particular embodiments may operate in a network environment including a plurality of hosts and other distributed systems. For example client system could include a desktop personal computer workstation laptop personal digital assistant PDA cell phone or any WAP Wireless Application Protocol enabled device or any other computing device capable of interfacing directly or indirectly to the Internet. Client system typically runs a browsing program such as Microsoft s Internet Explorer browser Netscape Navigator browser Mozilla Firefox browser Opera browser or a WAP enabled browser in the case of a cell phone PDA or other wireless device or the like allowing a user of client system to access and obtain authentication from server systems to over Internet .

Client system also typically includes one or more user interface devices such as a keyboard a mouse touch screen pen or the like for interacting with a graphical user interface GUI provided by the browser on a display e.g. monitor screen LCD display etc. in conjunction with pages login forms and other information provided by server systems to or other servers. The present invention is suitable for use with the Internet which refers to a specific global network of networks. However it should be understood that other networks can be used instead of or in addition to the Internet such as an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a non TCP IP based network any LAN or WAN or the like.

According to one embodiment client system and all of its components are configurable and made operative using an application including computer code run using a central processing unit such as an Intel x86 compatible microprocessor an AMD x86 compatible microprocessor or the like or multiple microprocessors. Computer code for configuring and opening client system to communicate process and display data and media content as described herein is preferably downloaded and stored on a hard disk but the entire program code or portions thereof may also be stored in any other volatile or non volatile memory medium or device such as a ROM or RAM or provided on any media capable of storing program code such as a compact disk CD medium a digital video disk DVD medium a floppy disk and the like. Additionally the entire program code or portions thereof may be transmitted and downloaded from a software source e.g. from one of content server systems to to client system over the Internet or transmitted over any other network connection e.g. extranet VPN LAN or other conventional networks using any communication medium and protocol e.g. TCP IP HTTP HTTPS Ethernet or other conventional media and protocol .

It should be appreciated that computer code for implementing embodiments of the present invention can be C C HTML XML Java JavaScript etc. or any suitable scripting language e.g. VBScript or any other suitable programming language that can be executed on client system or compiled to execute on client system . In some embodiments no code is downloaded to client system and needed code is executed by a server or code already present at client system is executed.

The elements of hardware system are described in greater detail below. In particular network interface provides communication between hardware system and any of a wide range of networks such as Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 network etc. Mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described functions implemented in the RF coverage map generator whereas system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by processor . I O ports are one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to hardware system .

Hardware system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of hardware system may be rearranged. For example cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively cache and processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core. Furthermore certain embodiments of the present invention may not require nor include all of the above components. For example the peripheral devices shown coupled to standard I O bus may couple to high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of hardware system being coupled to the single bus. Furthermore hardware system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

In one embodiment the login process described herein are implemented as a series of software routines run by hardware system . These software routines comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as processor . Initially the series of instructions are stored on a storage device such as mass storage . However the series of instructions can be stored on any suitable storage medium such as a diskette CD ROM ROM EEPROM etc. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as a server on a network via network communication interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as mass storage into memory and then accessed and executed by processor .

An operating system manages and controls the operation of hardware system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. According to one embodiment of the present invention the operating system is the LINUX operating system. However the present invention may be used with other suitable operating systems such as the Windows 95 98 NT XP operating system available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems and the like.

In one embodiment the login module accesses the domain restrictive data storage application to retrieve one or more identifiers from the local token data store and displays the retrieved identifiers in the user interface window of the browser application . Upon receiving a selection of one of the displayed identifiers the domain restrictive data storage application retrieves a token corresponding to the selected identifier from the local token data store and generates a challenge response for the selected identifier using the retrieved token. The challenge response and the token are then sent to the network server to establish a login session. Since the identifiers are only stored on the client system and only accessible through the domain restrictive data storage application a phisher has to find ways to get access to the identifiers in order to display a similar login page. However since access to the local token data store is controlled by the server domain context the phisher has to get access to the server domain. As a result a phishing attack becomes much more difficult. In some embodiments the identifiers stored in the local token data store might be text keywords images audio and video. Therefore when the one or more identifiers or avatars are displayed they are easily recognizable and distinguishable. However the lack of the identifier or avatar on the login page can signal a user of a possible phishing attack.

The present invention has been explained with reference to specific embodiments. For example while embodiments of the present invention have been described with reference to specific hardware and software components those skilled in the art will appreciate that different combinations of hardware and or software components may also be used and that particular operations described as being implemented in hardware might also be implemented in software or vice versa. Other embodiments will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art. It is therefore not intended that the present invention be limited except as indicated by the appended claims.

