---

title: Systems and methods for dynamic bridge linking
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to systems and methods for implementing telecommunications. More specifically, various embodiments of the present invention provide methods for interconnecting real-time communication links. Such methods include receiving the status of at least two communication links. The communication links may be established between endpoints and bridges in a network. One of the bridges associated with one of the communication links is selected to operate as a host bridge based at least in part on the status of the communication links. Then, after receiving the status from at least two of the communication links, the selected host bridge is automatically caused to initiate another communication link with at least another bridge associated with one of the aforementioned communication links.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07969916&OS=07969916&RS=07969916
owner: ACT Teleconferencing, Inc.
number: 07969916
owner_city: Golden
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060816
---
The present application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 423 693 entitled System and Method for Establishing and Controlling an On Demand Teleconference by a Remote Computer and filed Apr. 25 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 119 828 by Huber et al. which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 375 869 filed Apr. 26 2002 and is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 121 409 entitled System and Method for Establishing and Controlling an On Demand Teleconference by a Remote Computer and filed by Apr. 12 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 967 672 Huber which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 283 870 filed Apr. 13 2001. Each of the aforementioned patent applications is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to systems and methods for implementing telecommunications. More specifically embodiments of the present invention relate to systems and methods for dynamically linking telecommunication bridges.

Existing teleconferencing systems are capable of establishing a telephone conference call or teleconference between multiple individuals. One of the most common methods for establishing a teleconference involves a teleconference host or sponsor i.e. the individual who desires to have a teleconference to schedule the teleconference with a human teleconference operator in advance of the teleconference. The operator typically initiates a software application such as Windows Operating Console that provides control of all calls occurring on a particular bridge. Using the software the operator opens a pre loaded instance of the call and the necessary link line s for the proposed conference call are preconfigured in a table detailing the proposed call. At a pre determined point in time the operator dials to a second bridge waits for the system or another operator to answer the call and then manually links the calls by clicking an input on the operator s user screen. As will be appreciated the aforementioned approach may be labor intensive may not provide an ability to link calls on demand and may involve various charges incurred while a call is pre setup but not currently being utilized by callers.

Thus for at least one or more of the aforementioned reasons a need exists for advanced systems and methods for implementing telecommunication connections.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to systems and methods for implementing telecommunications. More specifically embodiments of the present invention relate to system and methods for dynamically linking telecommunication bridges.

Various embodiments of the present invention provide methods for interconnecting real time communication links. Such methods include receiving the status of at least two communication links. The communication links may be established between endpoints and bridges in a network. One of the bridges associated with one of the communication links is selected to operate as a host bridge based at least in part on the status of the communication links. Then after receiving the status from at least two of the communication links the selected host bridge is automatically caused to initiate another communication link with at least another bridge associated with one of the aforementioned communication links. In some cases selecting the host bridge includes consideration of whether the first status indicates a host status and or whether the second status indicates the host status. In other cases selecting the host bridge includes consideration of whether one or more of the bridges associated with the various communication links has sufficient available capacity. In yet other cases selecting the host bridge is based at least in part on the determination of whether one or more of the bridges associated with the communication links is least cost routable.

In various instances of the aforementioned embodiments the methods further include recording respective entries in a database table that includes one or more call parameters related to a particular one of the communication links. In some cases the call parameters include one or more of the following a bridge identifier a call status a port number a conference passcode and a bridge status. Further in some cases the status associated with the communication links is obtained by polling the database table. In some instances of the aforementioned embodiments automatically causing the selected bridge to initiate a communication link to another bridge includes monitoring a database populated with a plurality of communication link status information to identify when the first communication link and the second communication link have been established. In some cases initiating the communication link between the host bridge and another bridge includes determining an access property of the non host bridge communicating with the non host bridge using the access property and transmitting a validation code from the non host bridge to the host bridge. In one or more cases the validation code is a guest passcode.

Other embodiments of the present invention provide a computer readable storage medium containing a set of instructions capable of causing one or more processors to receive a first status associated with a first communication link that is established between a first endpoint and a first bridge in a network receive a second status associated with a second communication link that is established between a second endpoint and a second bridge in the network select one of the first bridge and the second bridge to operate as a host bridge and cause the selected bridge to initiate a third communication link with the non selected one of the first bridge and the second bridge after receiving both the first status and the second status. Selection of one of the first bridge and the second bridge to operate as a host bridge is based at least in part on the first status and the second status.

Yet other embodiments of the present invention provide methods for interconnecting real time communication links. Such methods include receiving a first status associated with a first communication link and a second status associated with a second communication link. The first communication link is established between a first endpoint and a first bridge in a network and the first status includes information related to the first communication link. Similarly the second communication link may be established between a second endpoint and a second bridge in the network. The methods further include determining if the first bridge is a host bridge based at least in part on the first status. In addition the first bridge is dynamically linked to the second bridge based at least in part on the first status and the second status. In this configuration the first bridge acts as a host bridge for a multi party communication ongoing between at least the first endpoint and the second endpoint.

In some cases the aforementioned method further includes determining that the second bridge is the host bridge based at least in part on the second status receiving a third status associated with a third communication link that is established between a third endpoint and a third bridge in the network and dynamically linking the third communication link to the first communication link and the second communication link by creating a fourth communication link between the host bridge and the third bridge. In some cases determining the host bridge based at least in part on the first status includes determining if a call passcode associated with the first communication link is a host passcode or a guest passcode.

This summary provides only a general outline of some embodiments of the present invention. Many other objects features advantages and other embodiments of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following detailed description the appended claims and the accompanying drawings.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to systems and methods for implementing telecommunications. More specifically embodiments of the present invention relate to system and methods for dynamically linking telecommunication bridges.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present invention systems and methods for performing Dynamic Bridge Linking DBL are described. For example a method for DBL is described for automatically linking bridges without the use of manual operator intervention. According to one embodiment a bridge coordinator monitors the bridges in a teleconferencing system. The bridge coordinator may be a separate system which is configured to recognize when multiple bridges should be linked to effectuate a desired telecommunication. According to one embodiment of the present invention when the bridge coordinator determines that multiple bridges need to be linked the bridge coordinator automatically launches a dial out process. Further in some embodiments of the present invention the bridge coordinator is capable of determining the least expensive dialing option such as PSTN VOIP and or the like.

As an operational example caller A may dial into one bridge while later caller B may dial into a second bridge each intending to be connected to the same teleconference. Since each bridge may operate independent of the other it may be that neither bridge recognizes that the conference is already in progress. In some embodiments the bridge coordinator may be or may include a software program that monitors the activity of a number of bridges within a network. When the bridge coordinator recognizes that caller A and caller B should be on the same conference call the bridge coordinator can designate one of the bridges or another bridge altogether to operate as a host bridge. The host bridge may initiate a dial out to other bridges servicing communication links that are to be included on the same conference call including the communication link servicing caller B. The process may be repeated until all callers are properly connected.

One or more benefits may be provided as a result of various embodiments of the present invention. For example various embodiments of the present invention may reduce interaction with a live operator and or may reduce time spent idling as communication links are dynamically formed rather than statically formed. As used herein the term dynamically is used in its broadest sense to mean the formation of a link at a point in time when the link comes into active use by two or more participants in a communication session. In contrast a statically formed link is generally set up in anticipation of a particular communication session and typically before more than one participant has joined the communication session. In contrast to dynamically linking bridges the traditional operator assisted method involves establishing links in anticipation of a communication session. This may incur long distance charges even before the advent of the communication session. Using one or more embodiments of the DBL method can provide the establishment of communication links as they are needed thus minimizing the costs of any toll services. In addition in the embodiments of the present invention that provide for automatic set up and linking there is a reduced need to employ operators. As yet another advantage found in some embodiments of the present invention users may be able to dynamically link to a communication session by dialing in to bridges local to the particular users rather than being required to dial in to a predetermined bridge that may not be local to one or more of the users.

Yet another benefit found in one or more embodiments of the present invention is that of bridge scalability. For example if a call exceeds the capacity of a bridge additional bridges may be employed on an as needed basis. The bridges will recognize when a link needs to be established and establish the link automatically. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that one or more of the aforementioned advantages and or some other advantages are found in the various embodiments of the present invention described herein.

Embodiments of the present invention may be provided as a computer program product which may include a computer readable medium having stored thereon instructions which may be executed by a computer or other electronic devices to perform a process. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a variety of computer readable media that may be used in relation to various embodiments of the present invention. As just some examples the computer readable medium may include but is not limited to floppy diskettes optical disks compact disc read only memories CD ROMs and magneto optical disks ROMs random access memories RAMs erasable programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory and or combinations thereof. Moreover embodiments of the present invention may also be downloaded as a computer program product wherein the program may be transferred from a remote computer to a requesting computer by way of data signals embodied in a carrier wave or other propagation medium via a communication link e.g. a modem or network connection .

For the sake of illustration various embodiments of the present invention have herein been described in the context of computer programs physical components and logical interactions within modern communication networks. Importantly while these embodiments describe various aspects of the invention in relation to modern communication networks and computer programs the method and apparatus described herein are equally applicable to other systems devices and networks as one skilled in the art will appreciate. As such the illustrated applications of the embodiments of the present invention are not meant to be limiting but instead exemplary. Other systems devices and networks to which embodiments of the present invention are applicable include but are not limited to other types of communication and computer devices and systems. More specifically embodiments are applicable to communication systems services and devices such as cell phone networks PSTN networks VOIP networks IP networks video conferencing and the like. In addition embodiments are applicable to all levels of communications from the local community communications to world wide communication systems.

The terms connected or coupled and related terms are used in an operational sense and are not necessarily limited to a direct physical connection or coupling. Thus for example two devices may be couple directly or via one or more intermediary media or devices. As another example devices may be coupled in such a way that information can be passed therebetween while not sharing any physical connection on with another. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate a variety of ways in which connection or coupling exists in accordance with the aforementioned definition.

The phrases in one embodiment according to one embodiment and the like generally mean the particular feature structure or characteristic following the phrase is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention and may be included in more than one embodiment of the present invention. Importantly such phases do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

If the specification states a component or feature may can could or might be included or have a characteristic that particular component or feature is not required to be included or have the characteristic.

In the preferred embodiment a high speed serial connection is used for connection . Those skilled in the art will recognize however that an Ethernet parallel or other connection could be used for connection .

Bridge is preferably a CONTEX 240 teleconferencing bridge manufactured by Compunetix Inc. of Monroeville Pa. having 240 or more ports. Bridge provides various digital signal processing conferencing call flow and other conference related functionality that allows several individuals to participate in a telephone conference call and allows several conference calls to be in progress at any given time. Those skilled in the art will recognize that other teleconferencing bridges providing similar functionality may also be used with departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Bridge is managed and controlled by MAT which is implemented as software residing on a workstation or other processing platform. MAT is connected to a small database and executes a real time billing interface which is an application programming interface API . As discussed in greater detail below billing interface allows information to be sent and received by MAT .

In the preferred embodiment MAT and billing interface are a workstation or other processing platform that executes version 1.0 or higher of the Real Time Bridge Interface which is also sold by Compunetix.

Referring to and those skilled in the art will recognize that the billing interface of MAT creates a transaction record whenever certain activities occur on bridge . Each transaction record is temporarily stored in database .

Header contains information for generally categorizing transaction record . For example header information may indicated that transaction record 1 is an inquiry as to the validity of a certain host or guest passcode 2 is a response to a validity request indicating whether a host or guest passcode is valid or invalid 3 contains information concerning the attributes associated with a particular passcode 4 indicates a change to the status of a port located on bridge 5 is an inquiry concerning the number of stored transaction records in a particular device 6 an inquiry concerning a specific transaction record 7 is intended to indicate the start time or end time of a particular conference or 8 is intended to change user data.

One or more parameters may be used within transaction record . Parameters are the elements that actually transmits the data within a transaction record . Representative parameters are shown in Table 1.

For a given conference call there might be 20 or more transaction records produced by billing interface for actions such as connecting to the bridge requesting a passcode be validated entering the conference hanging up and the act of the conference being terminated or torn down. For example if a teleconference attendee hangs up a phone connected to bridge billing interface will generate a transaction record in which header will contain information identifying that the transaction is intended to convey a change in the status of one of the ports of bridge . Parameters will contain information concerning the actual action that has occurred i.e. a disconnect the specific port experiencing the status change and the time the status changed occurred.

Referring again to billing interface sends a copy of any new transaction records generated by bridge via a connection to a listener . In the preferred embodiment connection is an IP connection connected to a TCP port not shown on Listener .

Listener collects each transaction record checks each for internal data errors and places the transaction record in a database . In the preferred embodiment Listener is implemented as software residing on a workstation or other processing platform and continuously screens a pre specified port on the MAT by default TCP IP Port 7300 for any new incoming data. Those skilled in the art will recognize that for particular applications Listener can be programmed to convert transaction record to a more efficient structure or discard unneeded data in transaction record thereby allowing more information to be stored.

When system is initially started billing interface on MAT and Listener exchange handshaking information such as transmission speeds with each other ensuring that both systems are operating properly and recognize each other. MAT and Listener begin to exchange data once the devices have established a communication session.

MAT and Listener continue to communicate to ensure that all the transaction records generated by bridge are actually received and stored by Listener in database . In the preferred embodiment MAT and Listener will every 10 minutes attempt to verify the contents of databases and by comparing the number of transaction records stored in the databases and . If the number of transaction records stored in the database and does not match a resynchronization operation will begin.

During a resynchronization operation Listener will request MAT to re send all the transaction records stored in database and compare the newly received transaction records to those stored in the database of Listener . If Listener identifies any new transaction records that have not been previously stored in database it will place the new transaction records in database . Checksums are used to ensure that data is not corrupted.

After the resynchronization operation has occurred MAT and Listener will attempt to re verify the contents of databases and by comparing the number of transaction records stored in the databases and .

Because Listener only receives and process transaction records it doesn t know how a participant is connected to bridge e.g. via PSTN or IP connection . Therefore Listener operates regardless of how an attendee is connected to Bridge . If different billing types are required for connections via PSTN or IP DNIS information can be used and analyzed as part of the billing process.

The transaction records stored in database of Listener are also replicated and sent to a database connected to a billing server via connection . In the preferred embodiment billing server is implemented as software residing on a workstation or other processing platform. As will be discussed in greater detail below billing server processes transaction records by applying various billing rules established by users. Once the transaction records are processed by billing server the information can be passed to web server through standard SQL ADO ActiveX Data Object drivers. As will be discussed in greater detail below this enables a user to directly view the call transaction records or summaries thereof.

A web server is also connected to billing server via connection . In the preferred embodiment web server is implemented as software residing on a workstation or other processing platform and executes a web interface . Web server is connected via web interface to the internet and ultimately to remote computers .

A user ID and password are issued to each individual authorized to access web interface . The user ID and password used to access web interface are separate and distinct from the host and guest passcodes used to access bridge . By accessing web interface teleconference hosts can establish teleconferences without the need of a human operator and perform a variety of administrative functions.

When a user activates or deactivates a host or guest passcode using web interface the information is sent to billing server which transmits replicates the data to databases and . When a host or guest passcode is presented to bridge via a telephone bridge can determine if the host or guest passcode is valid by having MAT compare the received passcode to the valid passcodes stored in database . If the passcode is valid MAT instructs bridge to place that call into conference.

In the preferred embodiment each user who is authorized to use interface is given a login security level appropriate to their position in the system hierarchy. Those skilled in the art will recognize that different security level classifications or a different number of security levels can be used in a manner consistent with the teachings of the present invention. This information is stored in database . The security levels for various types of users are shown in Table 2.

The preferred embodiment of the present invention utilizes a hierarchical design for establishing security levels and related accounts. The top 3 security levels are intended to be used by employees of the entity controlling the present invention while the bottom 4 levels are intended to be used by the customers of the entity controlling the present invention.

Users assigned to the highest 3 security levels are able to view various transaction records stored in database or any other related information stored in database that is associated with any system user having a lower security level. It is possible to place various restrictions on the particular type of information or transaction record a user having a particular security level may view.

With respect to the lowest 4 security levels a user at a given security level is permitted to access the information associated with a user at a lower security level provided that the user at the lower security level is within the hierarchy associated with the user at the higher security level. A security level 4 or lower user is not permitted to view information associated with a user in a different hierarchy.

In the preferred embodiment a security level 4 setting allows the greatest access to information stored in database by an individual not employed by the entity controlling the present invention.

Referring to and a user can cause web interface to display a conference detail web page by simply clicking on the conference name for the particular conference of interest. Web interface will then display a summary of the specific conference information from the previous web page plus specific details for each conference connection as set forth in Table 5.

The initial view of the bridge status web page is a high level view. The status indicator label for each port of bridge indicates the purpose each port is being used for. Additional details can be displayed by clicking on the details button at the top of the page. The detailed view displays the designation or name of the particular port conference ID the subscriber name the time port was first used and the total amount of time port was in use.

A specific customer s usage of bridge can be displayed by simply clicking on the customer drop down box and selecting a specific customer. Performing this action will display the following information for a particular customer available ports type of call dial in dial out passcode used with a link to the subscriber s information time connected and duration connected.

Only users with a higher security level are allowed to see details about a user having a lower security level For example referring to the web page depicted in the customer viewing web page is unable to view any details concerning port and port as indicated by the symbol X.X .

The system menu has at least 3 drop down menus providers customer and Department . By clicking on any one of menus the user can see a summary of each level in the hierarchy. The provider drop down menu displays a summary of all customers departments and users within the selected provider s hierarchy. In the preferred embodiment this menu is accessible only to administrative staff with an access level of 5 or higher and provides a summary of all providers in the system. The provider ID name billing address information assigned bridge and system status will also be displayed.

The customer drop down menu displays a summary of all customers within a selected hierarchy. The customers are listed alphabetically with all departments listed for each customer.

The department drop down menu displays a summary of all departments established within a selected customer. This information may be listed alphabetically by department name with the provider name and customer name as headers.

Each user can also change their password greeting name and e mail address. They can also change the page layout of their account e.g. number of records displayed per page how the subscribers are listed and if they would like the providers name listed . Any changes submitted on web page will be saved in database and will be effective the next time the user logs into web interface .

Web page also displays relevant information for each customer such as the customer name contact name type of contact e.g. technical billing sales etc. their phone number fax number city state and country.

Passcodes are typically generated in pairs host and guest. By entering a host passcode into bridge from telephone a conference can be initiated administrative functions can be performed and billing for the conference commences.

In addition a user can access the detail call records for any customer department or subscriber below them in the hierarchy. The user can also activate deactivate any level within the hierarchy thereby activating deactivating all host guest passcodes issued at and below that level.

Web page can be used to create individual and bulk subscriber accounts activate and deactivate passcodes restrict the usage to predetermined limits enable special conference feature by passcode and set expiration dates of the passcodes. Generating passcodes is a powerful feature of the system. In the preferred embodiment only users having a security level 3 or greater authorization are permitted to create passcodes. In creating a host guest passcode pair the features identified in Table 6 can be assigned to any given user and stored in database .

There are three ways passcode numbers can be assigned to each user using web page . First a random passcode can be designated for each user. Second each passcode can by selected sequentially within a given starting and ending range depending on availability. Finally the host and guest passcodes can be selected randomly.

Once bulk passcodes are created a customer level user might wish to assign and activate bulk passcodes by using spreadsheet software or another third party application. This is facilitated by downloading the passcodes to remote computer from database via web server and interface . Passcodes can be downloaded in comma delimited format to a the remote computer modified and returned to database . This eliminates the need to activate and assign passcodes one by one especially if hundreds of passcodes are being generated.

Billing server cycles through a checklist of items to check to determine the cause of a problem. If any of these items are returned as true a message is compiled and displayed in a pop up window . This window might contain one or more elements that need to be corrected before a passcode can be used again. depicts a subscriber status web page in which passcodes that are expired unassigned or inactive are displayed in red in column .

In the preferred embodiment the data may be displayed and downloaded in two data formats Conference and Participant. The data is arranged in a one to many format one conference with many participants. Most commercial service providers need to differentiate between the two in order to properly bill their respective customers for the calls.

In addition the present invention supports the transmission and receipt of data in traditional comma delimited format as well as XML format. In addition billing server formats the data to be downloaded to remote computer in a ZIP formatted file thereby reducing download time for users with slower Internet connections.

Referring to and the present invention also provides online invoicing tools. This powerful feature displays a real time preview of any invoice. After a billing cycle has been closed invoices are also available for display via web interface .

A pricing module is depicted in and . Specifically depicts a provider pricing model display web page . Web page allows pricing breakpoints to be applied to transactions and related billing information stored in database . In addition web page allows various volume discounts to be applied.

Referring again to to create a new pricing model information is supplied to interface via web page which includes the number of pricing levels the number of conference minutes between each level the starting rate per minute of bridge usage and the rate to decrement per level.

To generate and display an invoice a provider must be selected from pull down menu . Web page displays a list of all invoices currently generated for the selected provider. Web page summarizes the invoice period any description of the service and a total amount due for each invoice. Selecting a displayed invoice number displays the selected individual in the format of web page . This information includes Invoice date provider information date last generated total amount due effective billing date conferencing rate and dial out and surcharge minutes.

The invoice also displays the billable activity of each customer and department levels as created in the tiered hierarchy . Links to details of the sub levels are provided.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that printing from a web browser can often generate unpredictable output. Graphics inconsistent page breaks and browser overhead often prevent users from printing formal documents from the web.

The present invention offers a solution in providing printable page windows. Pressing the Print button from anywhere in the application brings up a pop up window not shown with a printer friendly version of the page or report. The same holds true for invoices such as the printable invoice displayed in .

The present invention also automates the traffic retrieval process. A customer isn t restricted to manually downloading traffic files from a web page rather the ability to automate this process between a customer s billing engine and the present invention is provided as follows.

Using an HTTP request a customer can request data for a specific time period from database to be downloaded to remote computer . An SSL connection is established between the remote computer and the web interface to provide security. Once the request is made an Active Server Page ASP page residing on web server makes a connection to the database runs a query and passes the data back to remote computer via an HTTP data stream.

Web interface also provides an automatic traffic feed option. Additional parameters must be provided in order for the request to be processed by web server . The following Table 7 is a list of both required and optional parameters.

When needed web server will return errors in place of data. The following Table 8 identifies a list of possible error messages and their causes.

Referring again to those skilled in the art will recognize that because MAT listener billing server and web server are preferably implemented as software residing on a workstation or other processing platform it is possible to combine or rearrange the functionality of the various devices. For example listener could be eliminated and billing server programmed to implement some or all of the functionality of listener . Furthermore those skilled in the art will recognize that billing server and web server can be combined and executed on a single general workstation.

Similarly identifies several connections between various components. For example Internet is described as connecting web server to remote computer . Those skilled in the art will recognize that other data connections such as a circuit based connection could be substituted for internet connection .

Other configurations are possible. For example discloses an alternative embodiment of the present invention. Components having the same function as described in have retained the same numerical identification. discloses the use of a combined MAT connected to bridge combined database and internet via interface . Combined MAT contains the functionality of MAT listener billing server and web server . Those skilled in the art will recognize that the use of combined MAT reduces the costs associated with multiple devices. Such a configuration however may be less reliable because of lack of redundant databases and workstations.

Another embodiment shown in discloses a method and configuration for controlling multiple bridges by using multiple listeners . Components having the same function as described in have retained the same numerical identification. In this particular embodiment MAT is connected to multiple listeners .

Step is similar to steps through described in . Specifically bridge has the MAT that is connected to it search its corresponding database to determine whether the passcode entered by the attendee matches the passcode to a conference call currently in progress on that bridge . If the entered passcode matches the passcode of a conference already in progress the attendee is placed into that conference. If the passcode does not match the passcode associated with a conference currently in progress the bridge has the MAT connected to it search its database to determine whether the passcode entered by the attendee matches the passcode associated with a conference that is scheduled to start around the time of the attendee s call. If the entered passcode matches the passcode of a conference that is scheduled to start around the time of the attendee s call the attendee is placed into that conference. If the entered passcode does not match the passcode of a conference that is scheduled to start around the time of the attendee s call bridge issues a query to database attached to the listener or listeners connected to the MAT that is connected to the bridge making the request to determine whether the entered passcode is a valid passcode. If the entered passcode is a valid passcode bridge creates a conference and the attendee is placed into that conference. If the entered passcode is not a valid passcode the call is terminated at step .

As previously mentioned some embodiments of the present invention provide for systems and methods to handle situations when two or more participants are to be linked in a common communication session but that may have attempted to join the common communication session by dialing into two or more separate bridges.

Bridge coordinator monitors central database and determines when dial in participants desiring to participate in the same communication session have accessed different bridges. In some embodiments bridge coordinator may be a software application. In other embodiments bridge coordinator may be implemented in a combination of hardware software and or firmware. Physically bridge coordinator may be collocated or embedded with one of the bridges. In other embodiments bridge coordinator may be an independent server communicably coupled with a database and or one or more of the bridges within the communications network. Still yet in other embodiments bridge coordinator may be combined with central database .

According to one embodiment of the present invention bridge coordinator is able to determine when dial in participants desiring to participate in the same communication session have accessed a bridge on the network. In some embodiments of the present invention this determination is made by monitoring passcodes. Passcodes may be issued in pairs comprising a host or moderator passcode and a guest passcode. The host passcode generally allows for the user to perform one or more administrative functions associated with the call. Examples of administrative functions include but need not be limited to starting stopping the communication session initiating recordings disconnecting participants and or the like. Participants using the guest passcode in contrast may be limited to controlling one or more features of their own communication link.

As mentioned bridge coordinator may determine when dial in participants desiring to participate in the same communication session have accessed different bridges. In one embodiment bridge coordinator recognizes when passscodes of the same set host and or host passcodes are in use on one or more bridges. According to one embodiment bridge coordinator may poll or seek information from the bridges in the network. This information may include the communication session passcodes associated with that participant. Other information about the communication session may include the location of the bridge a bridge identifier a port number and or the like. In other embodiments each bridge in the network reports information relating to all of the communication sessions being routed through that bridge to central database . Central database may report this information to bridge coordinator on a predetermined schedule which may be periodic or predefined in a look up table. Other embodiments provide bridge coordinator the ability to poll the database for information relating to the communication sessions occurring on the network. In one embodiment bridge coordinator stores the host passcode of all active sessions found. Then when a new guest passcode is found bridge coordinator determines if there is a matching host passcode present.

When bridge coordinator determines that dial in participants desiring to participate in the same communication session have accessed different bridges bridge coordinator may then identify a host for a particular communication session. This may be done for example using the information collected from the central database the bridges in the network and or using information stored within bridge coordinator . According to one embodiment a host is identified by the host passcode. If multiple host passcodes have been used for the same communication session then according to one embodiment bridge coordinator may select as the host bridge the bridge with which the host passcode was registered first in time.

Once a host bridge is identified or selected by bridge coordinator information may then be collected about the host bridge. For example information about the host bridge may include but need not be limited to a dial up number an IP address physical location and or the like. In one embodiment information about the host bridge may be collected by performing a look up from a dial string table within central database . In some embodiments the dial string look up table may contain information relating to the phone number of bridge B and the location of bridge A . In one embodiment the look up table may be populated with the bridge information by an administrator at the time a bridge is added to the network. In another embodiment the bridges are configured to automatically send information to populate the look up table on predetermined schedule e.g. a periodic schedule or on a user defined schedule .

In any event once the phone numbers and locations are determined bridge coordinator initiates a dial out command from bridge A to bridge B . Following an appropriate validation process the parties will be joined. According to one embodiment the validation process comprises checking the that the host and guest passcode correspond to the same communication session. In some embodiments encrypted validation keys may be sent from each bridge to the bridge coordinator. In this case the bridge coordinator will decrypt the key and verify that the parties should be joined.

The following example illustrates one approach for joining a communication session between multiple participants using DBL in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Suppose a caller A dials into bridge A by using a telephone number. Once bridge A answers the caller may be prompted to enter a passcode which was assigned to the communication session he desires to join. The passcode may then be validated by the system and the communication session is started at bridge A . According to one embodiment the validation process may comprise looking up the passcode in a predefined list. In other embodiments the passcode validation process may comprise determining a certain characteristic of the passcode is present. For example in order for a passcode to be valid one or more of the following properties may need to be present the passcode is divisible by a certain number the sum of the digits of the passcode are even or any other scheme know to those skilled in the art. Once the validation process is complete an entry may then be made in a database table located in a central location database indicating that caller A is online. One example of such a table is presented in . According to one embodiment bridge A initiates a transmission to central database that caller A is online. In another embodiment central database polls each bridge in the network to determine which callers are online and make the appropriate recordation in the database table. In either case the entry in database may include one or more call parameters. For example the entry may include the bridge ID i.e. an identifier unique to the bridge connecting caller A to the network a port number of the bridge through which the call is being routed and a passcode entered by the participant.

Similarly when caller B dials into bridge B desiring to join a communication session bridge B prompts caller B to enter a passcode for the desired communication session. The passcode may then be validated by the system. In one embodiment the passcode is validated by bridge B. In another embodiment the passcode is validated by bridge coordinator . The validation process may comprise looking up the passcode in a predefined list. In other embodiments the passcode validation process may comprise determining a certain characteristic of the passcode is present. For example in order for a passcode to be valid one or more of the following properties may need to be present the passcode is divisible by a certain number the sum of the digits of the passcode are even or any other scheme know to those skilled in the art. After the code is validated communication session begins on bridge B . According to one embodiment an entry is then made in a database table located in a central location indicated that caller B is online. This entry may result from bridge B reporting that caller B is online once the validation process is complete. As another example central database may poll bridge B on a predefined schedule. In some embodiments the database entry makes note of one or more of the call parameters such as the bridge ID i.e. an identifier unique to the bridge connecting caller B to the network port number associated with bridge B through which the communication session is being routed a passcode that was entered by caller B and or the like.

However bridge B is unaware that the same communication session is already in progress on bridge A . In addition bridge A is unaware that the same communication session is already in progress on bridge B . According to one embodiment bridge coordinator monitors the activity of all the bridges. In some embodiments bridge coordinator monitors the bridge activity by polling central database in which entries are present regarding active communication sessions. In other embodiments bridge coordinator sends a request to each bridge requesting information about active communication sessions. In some embodiments the information returned by either the bridge coordinator or the bridges contain the communication session passcodes that were entered by the callers. When bridge coordinator recognizes the passcodes assigned to the same communication session bridge coordinator determines a bridge that will act as a host bridge for the communication session.

According to one embodiment a host bridge is the bridge through which the communication session will be routed. In some cases determining a bridge that will act as a host bridge may be done by determining if the bridge is associated with a host passcode. In other instances additional information may be used to determine if the bridge should be a host bridge. For example suppose caller B dials into bridge B and enters a host passcode. In this case bridge coordinator may also determine if bridge B has available capacity to host the communication session if bridge B provide the least cost for routing the communication session i.e. least cost routable and or the like. If it is determined that bridge B does not have the available capacity bridge coordinator may determine an alternate bridge to act as a host bridge. Again this may be done using one or more of a variety of selection criteria such as bridge capacity least cost routable and or the like.

Once a host bridge is determined the bridge controller may perform a look up from a dial string table within central database to determine the phone number of host bridge. According to some embodiments the dial string table may also contain the location of the host bridge. Once the phone numbers and locations are determined bridge coordinator may initiate a dial out command from the other bridges associated with the communication session to the host bridge.

As previously described in many situations there will be a host and guest passcode. So multiple hosts may dial into a call and it is the host who has control over the call s functionality. The callers with the guest passcode generally have a non managerial role in the call. As such according to one embodiment the bridge that contains a host participant that dialed in first will become the host bridge i.e. it is from this bridge where all linking of the communication session will occur. For sake of explanation assume that bridge A is the host bridge.

In that case continuing with the detailed call flow the bridge coordinator will instruct bridge A to initiate a dial out to the bridge B . According to one embodiment this dial out process rings the remote bridge bridge B and on answer will send via a DTMF string the guest passcode of the call. In some embodiments the passcode will be validated and the line joined into the communication session thus linking the two bridges.

This process may be repeated for each subsequent bridge containing a participant using either the host of guest passcode from the same set. Then at the conclusion of the call the host will end the communication session by automatically tearing down all the linked lines to the other bridges.

At block the bridge coordinator then determines if the bridge which received the call is a host bridge. In one embodiment a bridge is determined to be a host bridge if the communication session which is being routed through the bridge has provided a host passcode. If the bridge coordinator determines that the bridge is not a host bridge then the bridge coordinator waits at block for call details from another bridge. If the bridge coordinator determines that the bridge is a host bridge then all calls relating to the corresponding communication session will be routed via the host bridge at block .

With the call thus identified the bridge coordinator determines if two or more calls are accessing the same communication session block . According to some embodiments this may be done by verifying and matching the passcodes provided by the participants as previously described. If two or more calls are not attempting to access the same communication session block the bridge coordinator waits for call details from another bridge block . In contrast where the bridge coordinator determines that two or more calls are attempting to access the same communication session block the bridge coordinator determines if the bridge which received the call should be the host bridge block . According to some embodiments of the present invention a determination that two or more calls acre accessing is done by checking the passcode associated with the calls. If the passcode is a host passcode then the bridge may be a host bridge. Where it is determined that the bridge is not a host bridge block the bridge coordinator waits at block for call details from another bridge.

If the bridge coordinator determines that the bridge is a host bridge block the bridge coordinator determines if the bridge has the capacity to accept the current communication session block . According to some embodiments of the present invention this may be done by polling the bridge to query capacity. In response the bridge may indicate a utilization level that may in turn be compared with a predetermined capacity threshold. Thus for example it may be determined whether the bridge is more than eighty percent utilized. In other embodiments of the present invention the capacity of the bridge is transmitted to the bridge coordinator along with the call bridge information. This information may be maintained in a table that is accessed whenever a determination of capacity is to be made. In either case the bridge coordinator may estimate the bandwidth needed for the communication session based at least in part on the call information provided by the bridge and then determine if the bridge has sufficient capacity.

If the bridge is found to have sufficient capacity block then the bridge coordinator determines if routing the call through the identified bridge would satisfy a desired load balance block . This may include for example determining whether another possible bridge is underutilized in comparison to the identified bridge or whether the identified bridge is over utilized in comparison with other available bridges. The intent of making such a determination is to assure that a general balance is maintained between available bridges. Thus various load balancing algorithms known in the art may be utilized to first make the determination of an allowable load balance and or of another choice of bridge that would satisfy the desired load balance.

Where it is determined that the identified bridge satisfies desired load balance conditions block it is determined whether choice of the bridge is least cost routable block . Least cost routing may consider one or more factors including but not limited to financial costs quality of service available service levels and or the like. As one example least cost routable may be simply the lowest financial cost for performing a communication session. Thus for example where one or more PSTNs phone systems is being used in relation to the communication session it may be determined which of the PSTNs provides the most advantageous rate structure for the call. Where it is determined that the identified bridge offers least cost routing block all calls associated with the communication session are routed via the identified host bridge block . A table may be maintained that provides rates based upon geography that may be accessed to perform the aforementioned least cost routing example.

Alternatively where it is determined that the identified bridge does not have capacity block selection of the identified bridge results in a substantial load imbalance block or that selection of the identified bridge does not result in least cost routing block then another bridge is identified through determining an alternate bridge that does have capacity block does satisfy a desired load balance block and in some cases provides for least cost routing not shown . In such a case all calls associated with the communication session are routed via the alternative host bridge block .

Then in the exemplary situation depicted participant dials into London bridge using a guest passcode which in this particular case is 23456 . An entry may then be made in the central database indicating that a guest intended for the 12345 conference has dialed in to London bridge . At this point Denver bridge receives instructions from bridge coordinator to initiate a dial out call to London bridge . Then the system joins all the participants. This process is repeated for the third participant who dials into Sydney bridge with associated Sydney listening server .

In some embodiments a listener server may be installed with software that will detect any loss of communication with either the database or bridge. Listener server may then begin a resynchronization process once the failed component regains complete functionality. During this resynchronization process listener server will re poll the bridges MATS and re request all the information regarding active ports.

Although the present invention has been described in connection with bridges that are connected to telephones those skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention can be used in connection with a bridge suitable for video conferencing without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention include various steps which have been described in detail above. A variety of these steps may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in computer executable instructions which may be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor programmed with the instructions to perform the steps. Alternatively the steps may be performed by a combination of hardware software and or firmware. As such is an example of a computer system with which embodiments of the present invention may be utilized. Such a computer system may include but is neither limited to or required to include a bus at least one processor at least one communication port a main memory a removable storage media a read only memory and a mass storage .

Processor s can be any know processor such as but not limited to an Intel Itanium or Itanium 2 processor s or AMD Opteron or Athlon MP processor s Motorola lines of processors a Digital Signal Processor DSP and or the like. Communication port s can be any of an RS 232 port for use with a modem based dialup connection a 10 100 Ethernet port or a Gigabit port using copper or fiber. Communication port s may be chosen depending on a network such a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or any network to which the computer system connects.

Main memory can be Random Access Memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device s commonly known in the art. Read only memory can be any static storage device s such as Programmable Read Only Memory PROM chips for storing static information such as instructions for processor . Mass storage can be used to store information and instructions. For example hard disks such as the Adaptec family of SCSI drives an optical disc an array of disks such as RAID such as the Adaptec family of RAID drives or any other mass storage devices may be used. Bus communicatively couples processor s with the other memory storage and communication blocks. Bus can be a PCI PCI X or SCSI based system bus depending on the storage devices used. Removable storage media can be any kind of external hard drives floppy drives IOMEGA Zip Drives Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disc Re Writable CD RW Digital Video Disk Read Only Memory DVD ROM . The components described above are meant to exemplify some types of possibilities. In no way should the aforementioned examples limit the scope of the invention as they are only exemplary embodiments.

The invention has now been described in detail for purposes of clarity and understanding. However it will be appreciated that certain changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Thus although the invention is described with reference to specific embodiments and figures thereof the embodiments and figures are merely illustrative and not limiting of the invention. Rather the scope of the invention is to be determined solely by the appended claims.

