---

title: Apparatus and methods for performing calibration of a mobile computing device
abstract: Various embodiments for performing calibration of a mobile computing device are described. In one or more embodiments, a device under test and a calibration test bench may be coupled by at least one of a wireless connection and a wired connection. The device under test may be arranged to receive one or more test command instructions from the calibration test bench and, in response, send an acknowledgment to the calibration test bench. In some embodiments, the device under test and the calibration test bench may be arranged to communicate according to a wireless device calibration protocol. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08000656&OS=08000656&RS=08000656
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08000656
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061219
---
A mobile computing device such as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone or smart phone generally may provide voice and data communications functionality as well as computing and processing capabilities. During production in a factory or when undergoing laboratory testing many types of mobile computing devices must be calibrated on a device per device basis before being shipped or mass produced. The calibration of each mobile computing device generally involves the taking of various transmitter and receiver testing measurements. The efficiency at which calibration is performed significantly impacts the daily volume of the production line. Accordingly there exists the need for an improved apparatus and methods for performing calibration of a mobile computing device.

Various embodiments are directed to performing calibration of a mobile computing device. In one or more embodiments a device under test and a calibration test bench may be coupled by at least one of a wireless connection and a wired connection. The device under test may be arranged to receive one or more test command instructions from the calibration test bench and in response send an acknowledgment to the calibration test bench. In some embodiments the device under test and the calibration test bench may be arranged to communicate according to a wireless device calibration protocol.

The wireless emulator may comprise for example hardware and or software for performing calibration of the DUT . In one or more embodiments the wireless emulator may be arranged to perform calibration according to a calibration test set. The calibration test set may comprise various transmitter and receiver testing measurements for the DUT such as transmitting power received signal strength indication RSSI channel power mean power radio resource control RRC power adjacent channel leakage ratio ACLR spectrum emission mask measurements power versus time measurements phase and amplitude versus time PAvT measurements phase and frequency error error vector magnitude EVM measurements frequency error waveform quality radio frequency RF generation output RF spectrum monitoring and so forth.

The calibration test set may comprise for example a calibration test set for one or more Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Wide band CDMA WCDMA systems CDMA 2000 systems CDMA 1xRTT systems Evolution Data Optimized EVDO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EVDV systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems Enhanced GPRS EGPRS systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth.

The PC may comprise any suitable computing or processing device arranged to send test commands for synchronizing the calibration test bench with the DUT and for instructing the DUT to perform various operations required for calibration. The test commands when executed may cause the DUT to synchronize with the calibration test bench and to perform calibration operations including for example enter a certain mode such as a calibration mode switch to a different mode select frequency band switch frequency band select channel switch to a different channel transmit test signal receive test signal and so forth.

The PC also may be arranged to inform the wireless emulator that the DUT is ready for calibration and to instruct the wireless emulator to perform calibration of the DUT according to the calibration test set. The PC may be coupled to a power source arranged to supply dynamic power when measuring power characteristics such as power sensitivity of the DUT . The PC also may be coupled to an input output I O interface such as a serial connection port for establishing a wired connection from the calibration test bench to an external device.

In one or more embodiments the DUT may be implemented as a mobile computing device such as combination handheld computer and mobile telephone sometimes referred to as a smart phone. Examples of smart phones include for example Palm products such as Palm Treo smart phones. When implemented as a smart phone the DUT may comprise various components such as a keyboard programmable keys buttons switches a microphone an audio headset a camera a touch sensitive display screen a stylus and so forth.

It is to be understood that while the DUT may be implemented as a smart phone by way of example the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the DUT may comprise or be implemented as any type of wireless device mobile station or portable computing device with a self contained power source e.g. battery such as a laptop computer ultra laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone combination cellular telephone PDA mobile unit subscriber station user terminal portable computer handheld computer palmtop computer wearable computer media player pager messaging device data communication device and so forth.

The DUT may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include CDMA systems GSM systems UMTS systems and so forth. In addition to voice communications functionality the DUT may be arranged to provide WWAN data communications functionality in accordance with EVDO systems EVDV systems CDMA 1 xRTT systems GSM GPRS systems EDGE systems HSDPA systems HSUPA systems and so forth.

The DUT may be arranged to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of WLAN systems. Examples of suitable WLAN systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

The DUT may be arranged to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electro magnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

As shown in the DUT may comprise a processor module . In various embodiments the processor module may comprise one or more processors such as a host processor and or a radio processor. In such embodiments the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources for the DUT . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the DUT such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. The host processor and the radio processor may communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines audio lines and so forth. Although some embodiments may comprise a dual processor architecture it is worthy to note that the DUT may comprise any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors consistent with the described embodiments.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the host processor implemented as a CPU or general purpose processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and application programs to provide computing and processing operations for the DUT . System programs generally may assist in the running of the DUT and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include without limitation an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. The DUT may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the DUT and a user. Examples of application programs may include without limitation one or more messaging applications e.g. telephone voicemail facsimile e mail IM SMS MMS video conferencing web browser applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for the DUT . For example the radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. In such embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the DUT . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth. Although the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown in the DUT may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the processor module . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers or components arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the processor module for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the processor module .

The transceiver module may comprise for example one or more cellular transceivers or components arranged to support communication over a cellular voice channel for a system such as a CDMA GSM and or UMTS cellular system. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more WWAN transceivers or components arranged to support data communication over a WWAN data channel in accordance with one or more WWAN protocols such as EVDO protocols EVDV protocols CDMA 1xRTT protocols GSM GPRS protocols EDGE protocols HSDPA protocols and so forth. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers or components arranged to support data communication over a WLAN data channel in accordance with one or more WLAN protocols such as IEEE 802.11a b g n protocols IEEE 802.16 protocols IEEE 802.20 protocols PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth. In some implementations the transceiver module may comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The DUT may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the processor module through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas. In various embodiments the antenna system may be tuned for operating at one or more frequency bands such as the 824 894 Megahertz MHz frequency band for GSM operations the 1850 1990 MHz frequency band for Personal Communications Services PCS operations the 1575 MHz frequency band for Global Positioning System GPS operations the 824 860 MHz frequency band for NAMPS operations the 1710 2170 MHz frequency band for Wide band CDMA Universal Mobile Telephone System WCDMA UMTS the ISM band in 2.4 GHz range for WiFi and Bluetooth and other frequency bands.

The DUT may comprise an I O interface coupled to the processor module . In one or more embodiments the I O interface may comprise a serial connection port for establishing a wired connection to an external computer system. Although not illustrated it can be appreciated that the DUT may comprise other types of I O devices such as an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to an external computer system such as a local PC. In various implementations the DUT may be arranged to transfer and or synchronize information with a local PC.

To perform calibration the calibration test bench may be coupled to the DUT by at least one of a wireless connection and a wired connection . The wireless connection may comprise for example an RF connection one or more RF channels a portion of the RF spectrum and or one or more licensed or license free RF frequency bands. The wired connection may comprise for example a peripheral serial connection such as a USB connection or UART connection.

In one or more embodiment both a wireless connection and a wired connection are established to calibrate the DUT . As shown in for example a wireless connection e.g. RF connection may be established between the wireless emulator of the calibration test bench and the antenna system and or transceiver module of the DUT . A wired connection e.g. UART connection may be established between the I O interface e.g. serial connection port of the calibration test bench and the I O interface e.g. serial connection port of the DUT .

In such embodiments the PC may be arranged to send test commands over the wired connection for synchronizing the calibration test bench with the DUT and for instructing the DUT to perform various operations required for calibration. The test commands may be received by the DUT over the wired connection decoded and then executed causing the DUT to synchronize with the calibration test bench and to perform one or more calibration operations.

For example the PC may be arranged to send a test command over the wired connection to synchronize the calibration test bench with the DUT . In various implementations the PC may be arranged to simultaneously transmit a command to the wireless emulator for synchronizing the calibration test bench with the DUT . After synchronization the PC may send a test command over the wired connection instructing the DUT to enter a calibration mode. In general the calibration mode may comprise a testing mode in which most of the software on the DUT is not running.

In one or more embodiments after entering the calibration mode the DUT may be arranged to send an acknowledgement to the calibration test bench . In various implementations the acknowledgement may be sent over the wired connection . In addition the DUT may be arranged to respond to the calibration test bench and or PC acknowledging receipt of one or more test commands even when in the calibration mode. By receiving an acknowledgment of the calibration mode and or test commands from the DUT the calibration test bench and or PC may avoid costly delays caused by waiting timing out sending redundant commands and so forth. Accordingly the time required for calibration may be significantly reduced for example by approximately 20 .

Upon receiving the acknowledgement of the calibration mode from the DUT the PC may inform the wireless emulator that the DUT is ready for calibration. The PC then may instruct the wireless emulator to perform calibration of the DUT according to the calibration test set.

In response the wireless emulator may obtain various transmitter and receiver testing measurements for the DUT such as transmitting power measurements RSSI measurements channel power measurements mean power measurements RRC power measurements ACLR measurements spectrum emission mask measurements power versus time measurements PAvT measurements phase and frequency error measurements EVM measurements frequency error waveform quality measurements RF generation measurements output RF spectrum monitoring and so forth.

In one or more embodiments the wireless emulator may obtain transmitter and receiver testing measurements for the DUT over the wireless connection . In various implementations the wireless emulator may comprise a CPU for formatting test data received through the wireless connection and for storing the test data in a readily accessible area for substantially real time presentation.

Once a particular test or set of testing procedures has completed the PC may send a command to the DUT over the wired connection instructing the DUT to perform additional testing. For example after testing for one channel has completed the PC may send a command instructing the DUT to switch to a different channel. After decoding the command and switching to the different channel the DUT may send and acknowledgement to the PC which in turn informs the wireless emulator that the DUT is ready for additional testing. The wireless emulator then performs testing on the DUT for the different channel.

As shown the calibration test bench may comprise a wireless emulator coupled to a PC over an interface such as a GPIB. The wireless emulator may comprise for example hardware and or software for performing calibration of the DUT . In one or more embodiments the wireless emulator may be arranged to perform calibration testing according to a calibration test set. The calibration test set may comprise for example various transmitter and receiver testing measurements as described above for one more of CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 CDMA 1xRTT EVDO EVDV GSM GPRS EGPRS EDGE UMTS HSDPA HSUPA and so forth.

The PC may comprise any suitable computing or processing device arranged to instruct the wireless emulator to perform calibration of the DUT according to the calibration test set. The PC also may be coupled to a power source arranged to supply dynamic power when measuring power characteristics such as power sensitivity of the DUT .

In one or more embodiment only the wireless connection is established to calibrate the DUT . The wireless connection may comprise for example an RF connection one or more RF channels a portion of the RF spectrum and or one or more licensed or license free RF frequency bands. As shown in for example the wireless connection e.g. RF connection may be established between the wireless emulator of the calibration test bench and the antenna system and or transceiver module of the DUT .

In such embodiments the test commands may be received by the DUT over the wireless connection decoded and then executed causing the DUT to synchronize with the calibration test bench and to perform various operations required for calibration. As such the calibration system avoids the need to establish a wired connection such as a USB connection UART connection or other peripheral serial connection when performing calibration. Accordingly the time required for calibration may be reduced.

In one or more embodiments the calibration test bench and the DUT may be arranged to communicate over the wireless connection according to a wireless device calibration protocol. The wireless device calibration protocol may comprise for example an RF chain defining the synchronization and command format between the wireless emulator and the DUT . In such embodiments the wireless emulator and the DUT may be configured to use the command format and synchronization signal implemented by the wireless device calibration protocol. The command format may define the various test commands and codes required to calibrate the DUT . The test commands when executed may cause the DUT to synchronize with the calibration test bench and to perform calibration operations including for example enter a certain mode such as a calibration mode switch to a different mode select frequency band switch frequency band select channel switch to a different channel transmit test signal receive test signal and so forth.

In various implementations the wireless device calibration protocol may be supported by the particular type of DUT and or calibration test set. For example if the DUT is implemented as a GSM mobile computing device and or calibration is to be performed according to a GSM calibration test set the wireless device calibration protocol may comprise a GSM cellular protocol. In such implementation the same RF chain may be used for synchronization communicating test commands and obtaining transmitter and receiver testing measurements over the wireless connection .

The test commands may be received by the DUT over the wireless connection decoded and then executed causing the DUT to synchronize with the calibration test bench and to perform one or more calibration operations. For example the PC may be arranged to send a test command through the wireless emulator and over the wireless connection to synchronize the calibration test bench with the DUT . After synchronization the PC may send a test command through the wireless emulator and over the wireless connection instructing the DUT to enter a calibration mode.

In one or more embodiments after entering the calibration mode the DUT may be arranged to send an acknowledgement to the calibration test bench over the wireless connection . In addition the DUT may respond to the calibration test bench over the wireless connection acknowledging receipt of one or more test commands. By receiving an acknowledgment of the calibration mode and or test commands from the DUT the calibration test bench and or PC may avoid costly delays caused by waiting timing out sending redundant commands and so forth.

Upon receiving the acknowledgement of the calibration mode from the DUT the wireless emulator may recognize that the DUT is ready for calibration and begin to perform calibration of the DUT according to the calibration test set. Accordingly the time required for calibration may be reduced.

The wireless emulator may obtain various transmitter and receiver testing measurements for the DUT such as transmitting power measurements received signal strength indication RSSI measurements channel power measurements mean power measurements radio resource control RRC power measurements adjacent channel leakage ratio ACLR measurements spectrum emission mask measurements power versus time measurements phase and amplitude versus time PAvT measurements phase and frequency error measurements error vector magnitude EVM measurements frequency error waveform quality measurements radio frequency RF generation measurements output RF spectrum monitoring and so forth.

In one or more embodiments the wireless emulator may obtain transmitter and receiver testing measurements for the DUT over the wireless connection . In various implementations the wireless emulator may comprise a CPU for formatting the test data received through the wireless connection and for storing the test data in a readily accessible area for substantially real time presentation.

Once a particular test or set of testing procedures has completed a command may be sent from and or through the wireless emulator over the wireless connection instructing the DUT to perform additional testing. After decoding the command the DUT may send and acknowledgement over the wireless channel informing the wireless emulator that additional testing may be performed. The wireless emulator then may perform the additional testing on the DUT .

As described above the calibration test bench may be arranged to support complete wireless RF calibration for the DUT . In such cases all test command instructions are sent to DUT over the wireless connection e.g. RF connection . At the same time the DUT is able to communicate with the wireless emulator over the wireless connection and respond to the calibration test bench acknowledging receipt of such tests commands. The PC may be arranged to control the wireless emulator and to instruct the wireless emulator to perform calibration according to a certain set of calibration procedures.

The wireless emulator may be arranged to synchronize with the DUT using the wireless connection . The wireless emulator by itself may recognize when the DUT is ready for calibration and send the test commands to the DUT . The wireless emulator may then perform certain testing operations. For example the wireless emulator may measure the power output from the DUT when such testing operations are performed. Because the wireless connection is used for calibration rather than a peripheral serial connection e.g. UART connection the time required for calibration may be reduced.

The logic flow may comprise establishing at least one of a wireless connection and a wired connection to a calibration test bench block . The one or more connections may be established by a DUT implemented by a mobile computing device. In one or more embodiments the wireless connection may comprise an RF connection and the wired connection may comprise a serial peripheral connection such as a USB connection or UART connection.

In the embodiment of both a wireless connection and a wired connection are established to calibrate the DUT . The wireless connection e.g. RF connection may be established between the wireless emulator of the calibration test bench and the antenna system and or transceiver module of the DUT . A wired connection e.g. UART connection may be established between the I O interface e.g. serial connection port of the calibration test bench and the I O interface e.g. serial connection port of the DUT .

In the embodiment of only a wireless connection is established to calibrate the DUT . The wireless connection e.g. RF connection may be established between the wireless emulator of the calibration test bench and the antenna system and or transceiver module of the DUT .

The logic flow may comprise receiving one or more test command instructions from the calibration test bench block . In the embodiment of test commands may be received over the wired connection for synchronizing the calibration test bench with the DUT and for instructing the DUT to perform various operations required for calibration. In the embodiment of test commands may be received by the DUT over the wireless connection .

In one or more embodiments the test command instructions may be communicated according to a wireless device calibration protocol. The wireless device calibration protocol may comprise for example an RF chain defining the synchronization and command format between the wireless emulator and the DUT . The command format may define the various test commands and codes required to calibrate the DUT . In various implementations the wireless device calibration protocol may be supported by the particular type of DUT and or calibration test set.

The logic flow may comprise sending an acknowledgement to the calibration test bench block . In one or more embodiments after entering the calibration mode an acknowledgement may be sent. In some implementations the acknowledgement may be sent over the wired connection . In other implementations an acknowledgement may be sent over the wireless connection . Additionally receipt of one or more test commands may be acknowledged even when in the calibration mode. By receiving an acknowledgment of the calibration mode and or test commands costly delays may be avoided and the time needed for calibration may be reduced.

The logic flow may comprise executing the test command instructions and providing test data to the calibration test bench block . The test commands when executed may cause synchronization with the calibration test bench and calibration operations including for example enter a certain mode such as a calibration mode switch to a different mode select frequency band switch frequency band select channel switch to a different channel transmit test signal receive test signal and so forth.

In one or more embodiments test data may be obtained for various transmitter and receiver testing measurements over the wireless connection . The measurements may comprise for example one or more of transmitting power measurements RSSI measurements channel power measurements mean power measurements RRC power measurements ACLR measurements spectrum emission mask measurements power versus time measurements PAvT measurements phase and frequency error measurements EVM measurements frequency error waveform quality measurements RF generation measurements output RF spectrum monitoring and so forth. In various implementations test data may be formatted and stored by a CPU in a readily accessible area for substantially real time presentation.

Numerous specific details have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details are representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design and or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation.

It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising exemplary functional components or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate exemplary implementations and that the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It is worthy to note that some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

Some of the figures may include a flow diagram. Although such figures may include a particular logic flow it can be appreciated that the logic flow merely provides an exemplary implementation of the general functionality. Further the logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

