---

title: Battery box assembly
abstract: A battery compartment assembly includes a housing and a lid configured to be removably attached to the housing. The lid includes a pair of hinges that engage a corresponding pair of openings in the housing, and a latch that engages a ridge on the housing when the lid is in the closed position. The lid also includes a pair of contacts that extend from the lid to mate with connectors of a control unit to be powered by the batteries in the assembly. A spring is included in the housing for connecting to a positive terminal of a first battery and a negative terminal of a second battery.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07625667&OS=07625667&RS=07625667
owner: Masco Corporation of Indiana
number: 07625667
owner_city: Indianapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060104
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 661 981 filed Mar. 14 2005 which is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

This application also expressly incorporates by reference the disclosure of each of the following applications 1 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 755 581 filed Jan. 12 2004 titled MULTI MODE HANDS FREE AUTOMATIC FAUCET 2 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 755 582 filed Jan. 12 2004 titled CONTROL ARRANGEMENT FOR AN AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL FAUCET 3 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 757 316 filed Jan. 14 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 962 168 titled CAPACITIVE TOUCH ON OFF CONTROL FOR AN AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL FAUCET 4 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 912 254 filed Aug. 5 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 968 860 titled RESTRICTED FLOW HANDS FREE FAUCET 5 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 661 982 filed Mar. 14 2005 titled POSITION SENSING DETECTOR ARRANGEMENT FOR CONTROLLING A FAUCET 6 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 662 106 filed Mar. 14 2005 titled VALVE BODY ASSEMBLY WITH ELECTRONIC SWITCHING and 7 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 662 107 filed Mar. 14 2005 titled SPOUT ASSEMBLY FOR AN ELECTRONIC FAUCET AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING STRAIN RELIEF OF A CABLE Related Applications . It is understood that certain features disclosed and or claimed in one or more of the Related Applications may be combined and or claimed in combination with certain features disclosed in this application.

The present invention generally relates to compartments for housing batteries and more particularly to a battery compartment configured to be detachable from the powered electronics to facilitate replacement of the batteries.

Battery compartments typically house batteries which are electrically coupled to electronic components and provide electrical power thereto. Many conventional battery compartments are difficult to access particularly when the electronics are installed such that they are not visible in ordinary circumstances. For example a control box for an electronic faucet may be mounted under the sink. When a conventional battery compartment is used and the batteries housed therein need to be replaced the user typically must open a lid of the battery compartment remove the old batteries and install the new batteries all while remaining in the small difficult to access poorly lit space under the sink.

An illustrative embodiment of the present disclosure provides a battery compartment that is detachable from a housing of a control unit and is configured to support batteries for powering the control unit. In one illustrative embodiment a battery compartment for use in combination with the control unit of an electronic faucet includes a housing configured to receive a first battery and a second battery. A lid including a hinge is operably coupled to the housing. A first contact is configured to contact a negative terminal of the first battery and a second contact is configured to contact a positive terminal of the second battery. The first and second contacts extend from the lid to mate with first and second connectors of the control unit. A spring is disposed within the housing and includes a first coil configured to be in electrical communication with a positive terminal of the first battery and a second coil configured to be in electrical communication with a negative terminal of the second battery. The spring also includes a connecting portion connecting the first and second coils of the spring.

In a further illustrative embodiment a battery compartment for use in combination with the control unit of an electronic faucet includes a housing having a lower wall a rear wall and a front wall defining an interior space for receiving at least one battery. A contact extends in a rearward direction relative to the rear wall of the housing and is configured to be in electrical communication with the at least one battery. The housing is supported by the control unit such that the rear wall of the housing is juxtaposed relative to a front wall of the control unit and the contact is in electrical communication with a connector of the control unit.

According to another illustrative embodiment a controller assembly for an electronic faucet includes a control unit having a housing with a front wall and a rear wall defining an interior space for receiving electronics. A connector is in electrical communication with the electronics. A first coupler is supported by the rear wall of the control unit and is configured to attach the control unit to a support below a sink. A battery compartment includes a housing having a lower wall a rear wall and a front wall defining an interior space for receiving at least one battery. A second coupler is supported by the rear wall of the battery compartment and is configured to operably couple with the front wall of the control unit such that the battery compartment is supported by and in electrical communication with the control unit.

The features and advantages of the present invention described above as well as additional features and advantages will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art upon reference to the following description and the accompanying drawings.

The embodiments described below are merely exemplary and are not intended to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Instead the embodiments were selected for description to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to practice the invention.

Referring initially to a controller assembly illustratively includes a battery compartment operably coupled to a control unit . Battery compartment according to one embodiment of the present invention generally includes a lid a first contact A a second contact B a spring and a housing . As best shown in and lid which is formed of a non conductive material includes an upper wall and a side wall which together substantially define an interior space . Upper wall includes four pins A D that are spaced and sized to secure contacts A B to lid as is further described below. Side wall extends about the perimeter of the upper wall and includes a front portion a rear portion side portions a mating edge on rear portion and a lower edge on front portion and side portions . Extending up from rear portion of side wall are a pair of hinges . Each hinge includes a vertical portion and a horizontal portion that projects from vertical portion substantially over mating edge . Horizontal portions each include a contact surface .

As shown in a pair of openings for receiving portions of contacts A B are formed substantially at the intersection between upper wall and rear portion of side wall adjacent hinges . A pair of stand offs extend from upper wall along front portion of side wall . Each stand off includes an upper surface . Finally lid further includes a latch extending from front portion of side wall . Latch includes a catch ridge and a handle .

First and second contacts A and B are substantially identical. Accordingly only contact A is referenced in detail in the following description. With further reference to contact A is made of a conductive material and includes a body and a tab . Body includes a pair of openings that are spaced and sized to correspond to the spacing and size of pins A B. Body also includes a dome configured to make contact with a battery as is further described below. It should be understood that dome protrudes from body a distance that is greater than the distance pins A B protrude from upper wall to ensure that contact A makes electrical contact with the battery . Tab extends from body and is narrower than body . As further detailed herein tab is configured to be in electrical communication with electronics of control unit and complete an electrical circuit so that batteries housed by battery compartment provide power to the electronics .

Referring now to and housing is formed of a non conductive material and generally includes a front wall a rear wall side walls and a lower wall which together substantially define an interior space for receiving batteries . Front wall includes an upper edge an inner surface and an outer surface . A rib extends substantially longitudinally along inner surface from adjacent upper edge to lower wall . A laterally extending ridge projects from outer surface and includes a cam surface and a retaining surface . Additionally a grip member or wall projects substantially perpendicularly from outer surface of front wall .

Rear wall includes an upper edge an inner surface and an outer surface . A pair of ribs extend substantially longitudinally along inner surface from adjacent upper edge to lower wall . A battery orientation diagram is formed imprinted or otherwise indicated on outer surface . A pair of openings are formed through rear wall adjacent upper edge for receiving hinges as is further described below.

Side wall includes an upper edge an inner surface and an outer surface . As shown side wall also includes a first portion a second portion that is substantially perpendicular to first portion and a third portion that is substantially parallel to first portion . A lug extends upwardly from upper edge of third portion . Similar to side wall side wall includes an upper edge an inner surface an outer surface a first portion a second portion a third portion and a lug .

Referring now to FIGS. and lower wall includes a drain opening a first access opening a second access opening a third access opening a first positioning member or ridge adjacent first access opening and a second positioning member or ridge adjacent second access opening . As best shown in a retention prong is disposed adjacent first access opening and includes a vertical portion that extends substantially perpendicularly from lower wall and a horizontal portion that extends substantially parallel to lower wall partially over first access opening . Another retention prong is similarly disposed relative to second access opening . Retention prong is substantially identical to retention prong and as such includes vertical portion and horizontal portion . Finally rib forms a notch adjacent third access opening .

As best shown in spring is formed in this embodiment from a single piece of conductive material. Spring includes a first coil having an upper end configured to contact battery C and a lower end configured to substantially surround first positioning ridge . Spring further includes a second coil having an upper end configured to contact battery D and a lower end configured to substantially surround second positioning ridge . Spring further includes a connecting portion extending between lower end of first coil and lower end of second coil and retained within notch .

It should be understood that conventional battery compartments typically use a blade or clip to engage the positive terminal of a battery which projects from the end of the battery. This clip must be connected to the negative terminal of the next battery in the series using a wire. The above described spring provides an in turned end A at end of first coil which ensures contact with the positive terminal C of the battery C as is further described below. As first coil is connected to second coil by connecting portion an extra component such as a wire is not needed to complete the series connection.

Assembly is assembled by installing spring into housing . Referring to through spring is positioned into interior space of housing adjacent lower wall . Lower end of first coil is positioned under horizontal portion of retention prong and lower end of second coil is positioned under horizontal portion of retention prong . Connecting portion of spring is compressed toward rear wall of housing and positioned under and into notch of rib . When connecting portion is released spring is compressed between rib and vertical portions of retention prongs .

Referring now to contact A is connected to lid by inserting tab through opening and pressing body toward upper wall of lid such that pins A B extend through openings respectively. Pins A and B may be deformed after installation of contact A to prevent removal of contact A. Of course contact A should be installed such that dome extends away from upper wall . Contact B is installed in a similar fashion.

Next batteries may be placed into interior space of housing according to diagram . It should be understood that rib of front wall separates batteries A C in one half of housing from batteries B D in the other half of housing . It should be further understood that although housing is shown as configured for four batteries the principles of the present invention may be applied to modify housing to receive more than four batteries or fewer than four batteries . Moreover housing may be configured to receive batteries of any number or size i.e. AA AAA C and or D cell batteries . As indicated by diagram and shown in the batteries are installed to form a series circuit such that when lid is installed the negative terminal or contact A of battery A touches dome of contact B the positive terminal or contact A of battery A touches the negative contact C of battery C the positive contact C of battery C touches first coil of spring the negative contact D of battery D touches second coil of spring which is electrically connected to first coil through connecting portion the positive contact D of battery D touches the negative contact B of battery B and the positive contact B of battery B touches dome of contact A.

Lid is attached to housing by first resting mating edge of lid onto edge of housing rear wall with hinges aligned with openings of rear wall . Next lid is rotated downwardly toward housing such that horizontal portions of hinges extend into openings as shown in . Lugs prevent lid from shifting toward front wall as lid is rotated. As indicated by as lid is rotated downwardly into this closed position catch ridge of latch engages cam surface of ridge formed on front wall of housing . Latch and lid flex slightly so that catch ridge passes over ridge . As lid reaches the closed position latch and lid are urged toward their original positions and catch ridge is retained under retaining surface of ridge . Accordingly hinges and catch ridge substantially inhibit upward movement of lid .

When in the closed position domes of contacts A B move their associated stack of batteries B D and A C downwardly against the upward biasing force of spring coils . As such each battery stack A C and B D is held relatively firmly in place thereby ensuring contact between the batteries A C and B D contacts B A and coils .

Referring again to a housing for a control unit configured to receive battery compartment assembly is shown. It should be understood that housing includes internal electronics which are powered by the batteries contained within battery compartment assembly and may be mounted in a relatively inaccessible poorly lit location such as under a sink. Among other things housing includes a front wall having an upper flange a lower flange and a pair of alignment ribs . A first opening and a second opening are formed through front wall adjacent lower flange . A rear wall and side walls and cooperate with front wall to define an interior space for receiving electronics .

A first connector and a second connector are accessible to contacts A and B through first opening and second opening respectively . The connectors and may be of conventional design and illustratively include spring biased members defining a slot to slidably receive contacts A and B respectively.

With reference to a first coupler is illustratively supported by rear wall of housing . In one illustrative embodiment first coupler comprises a bracket including engagement members or hooks configured to be releasably received within openings formed in rear wall . Bracket is illustratively fixed to a mounting surface under sink for removably attaching the control unit thereto.

A second coupler is illustratively defined by contacts A and B. More particularly engagement between contacts A B and connectors support battery compartment from control unit .

As should be apparent from the foregoing battery compartment assembly is installed onto housing by holding assembly with lid facing downwardly and inserting contacts A B into openings respectively. Assembly is then moved toward housing such that rear wall of assembly is juxtaposed relative to front wall of housing . When in the installed position assembly is illustratively positioned against front wall between upper flange lower flange and alignment ribs with contacts A B positioned substantially fully within openings . It should be understood that when assembly is in the installed position contacts A B engage power connectors within housing to provide power from the batteries within assembly .

Batteries within assembly may be replaced by first pulling assembly out of engagement with housing . More specifically the user may grasp housing or grip member of housing and pull housing away from front wall of housing . This causes contacts A B to withdraw from openings . Assembly may then be taken away from housing for replacement of the batteries . This permits the user to take assembly to a well lit area where lid of assembly may be easily removed. To do so the user grasps handle of latch and applies force to flex latch away from front wall of housing . This permits catch ridge of latch to clear retaining surface of ridge . Lid is then rotated on hinges and moved away from housing such that hinges withdraw from openings of housing rear wall . Housing may then be turned over so that the batteries within housing fall out from interior space . New batteries may be installed and the above described process for attaching lid to housing and installing assembly onto housing my be repeated.

With reference to controller assembly including battery compartment and control unit may be used in combination with an electronic faucet . Electronic faucet illustratively includes a valve body assembly in electrical communication with control unit and configured to receive hot and cold water from hot and cold water supply lines and . Additional details of the valve body assembly are provided in one or more of the Related Applications including U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 662 106 filed Mar. 14 2005 titled VALVE BODY ASSEMBLY WITH ELECTRONIC SWITCHING. 

Hot and cold water is illustratively mixed within valve body assembly and then supplied to a spout assembly through a mixed water line . An electrically actuated valve such as a solenoid valve may be positioned within mixed water line intermediate valve body assembly and spout assembly and is controlled by control unit . Spout assembly is in electrical communication with control unit and dispenses mixed water through a spray head and into a sink . Additional details of spout assembly are provided in one or more of the Related Applications including U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 662 107 filed Mar. 14 2005 titled SPOUT ASSEMBLY FOR AN ELECTRONIC FAUCET AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING STRAIN RELIEF OF A CABLE. 

While this invention has been described as having an exemplary design the present invention may be further modified within the spirit and scope of this disclosure. This application is therefore intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention using its general principles. Further this application is intended to cover such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice in the art to which this invention pertains.

