---

title: Method of constructing a reconfigurable photonic band gap device
abstract: A method for constructing a reconfigurable photonic band gap device having a substrate and a crystal membrane with a lattice structure having its ends attached to a substrate so that a midportion of the lattice membrane is spaced upwardly from the substrate and forms a chamber therebetween. A bridge is disposed in the chamber between and separated from both the lattice membrane midportion and the substrate. At least one post is attached to the bridge and aligned with at least one hole in the lattice so that movement of the bridge relative to the lattice varies the degree of insertion of the post relative to its associated hole to vary the photonic band gap behavior of the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07454110&OS=07454110&RS=07454110
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07454110
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061221
---
This application is a Divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 068 779 filed Mar. 2 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 158 710 which has now issued as a patent and which claimed priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 550 846 filed Mar. 5 2004 each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention relates generally to photonic band gap devices and more particularly to a reconfigurable photonic band gap device.

Photonic band gap PBG structures typically comprise a crystal lattice which disallows the propagation of light of certain wavelengths through the lattice. However when a defect line is created on the photonic crystal structure the PBG structure can be configured as an optical waveguide which facilitates the propagation of light of certain wavelengths. Variations in the physical dimension of the defect line change the dispersion properties of the waveguide to facilitate or enable light propagation. Therefore a photonic integrated circuit can be built with such a PBG structure.

A primary disadvantage of the previously known photonic crystal based photonic integrated circuits is that such photonic integrated circuits are formed with fixed lattice structures and fixed defect lines and accordingly exhibit a fixed functionality. Consequently in order to form a photonic system having different functionalities it is necessary to use different types of photonic integrated circuits interconnected together. Each different photonic integrated circuit of course requires its own set of fabrication masks etc. thus increasing the overall cost for the individual photonic integrated circuits and the corresponding overall cost of the photonic system.

The present invention provides a reconfigurable photonic band gap device which can be selectively configured to operate as any of a plurality of different photonic functionalities such as waveguides switches time delays intensity modulators phase modulators resonators etc.

In brief the reconfigurable photonic band gap device of the present invention comprises a semiconductor crystal substrate which may be of any conventional composition such as a gallium arsenide substrate. A two dimensional photonic crystal lattice membrane with a plurality of holes has its ends attached to the substrate so a midportion of the lattice membrane is spaced upwardly from the substrate and forms a chamber between the midportion of the lattice membrane and the substrate.

A bridge is disposed in the chamber between the substrate and the photonic crystal lattice membrane and is positioned closely adjacent the lattice membrane with a small distance of about one wavelength of the operating band gap light wavelength. The portion of the bridge which is aligned with the lattice membrane is separated from both the lattice membrane and the substrate and thus movable relative to the lattice membrane. The bridge is constructed of a crystal material compatible with the substrate and crystal lattice membrane such as an alloy of the substrate.

At least one post extends from the bridge and is aligned with at least one hole in the lattice. Preferably a plurality of linearly aligned posts extend from the bridge wherein each post is aligned with one hole in the lattice.

The bridge is movable relative to the lattice to vary the degree of insertion of each post into its corresponding hole in the lattice membrane. In order to move the bridge relative to the lattice a first electrical contact is formed on the substrate and a second electrical contact is formed on the bridge. Consequently by varying the voltage potential between the electrical contacts the bridge flexes away from and towards the lattice as a result of coulombic attraction between the bridge and the substrate.

The present invention also discloses a method of making a reconfigurable photonic band gap device. The method includes the step of forming a wafer having a crystal substrate a sacrificial layer overlying the crystal substrate a bridge layer overlying the sacrificial layer and a crystal membrane overlying the bridge layer. All of the wafer layers and membrane are made from compatible semiconductor crystalline material such as gallium arsenide and or alloys thereof.

A lattice is first etched through the crystal membrane layer using conventional electron beam lithography and reactive ion plasma etching so the layer has a plurality of lattice holes. The size shape and spacing of the holes will vary as a function of the desired optical wavelength and the characteristics of the photonic band gap device. In addition a portion of the crystal membrane is left intact within a plurality of linearly aligned holes in the lattice to form a defect line.

Thereafter a portion of the sacrificial layer beneath the lattice is removed to form an internal chamber or space within the wafer. Any conventional means such as an selective wet chemical etch may be utilized to remove the sacrificial layer.

A portion of the bridge layer sufficient to separate the bridge layer from the crystal membrane is then removed by another selective wet chemical etch. Following this chemical etch at least one post comprising a portion of the bridge layer as well as a portion of the membrane extends into a registry lattice hole in the crystal membrane layer.

Electrical contacts are then attached to both the bridge layer as well as the substrate. In use a voltage differential applied between the bridge and the substrate through the contacts flexes the bridge due to coulombic attraction. In doing so the bridge with its attached post s moves toward and away from the membrane in order to vary the degree of insertion of the post s within their corresponding lattice holes.

With reference first to a preferred embodiment of the photonic band gap device of the present invention is shown and comprises a semiconductor crystal substrate . Any conventional material such as gallium arsenide may be used as the substrate .

A photonic crystal membrane having a plurality of holes which form a two dimensional lattice structure is attached to the substrate . Furthermore the lattice structure is positioned between an optical input and an optical output for the photonic device .

The lattice holes may be of any conventional size and shape for a photonic band gap structure. However as shown in the drawing the lattice holes are generally hexagonal in shape although other shapes may alternatively be used without deviation from the spirit or scope of the present invention. Furthermore the distance between the centers of adjacent holes in the lattice structure the size of the holes as well as the thickness of the wall separating the holes from each other determine the band gap wavelength for the photonic band gap device in the well known manner.

Referring now particularly to a bridge is attached to the substrate and is positioned between the lattice structure and the substrate . The bridge may be either attached at both ends to the substrate or may alternatively be of a cantilever design.

The bridge is made of a semiconductor crystal material compatible with the substrate such as an alloy of the substrate . As best shown in a chamber is formed in between the bridge and the substrate thus allowing the bridge to flex between the position shown in and the position shown in .

At least one and preferably a plurality of posts arranged in a geometric pattern such as a line extend upwardly from the bridge between the optical input and the optical output . Each post is aligned with a corresponding hole in the lattice structure . Consequently as best shown in as the bridge moves between the position shown in and to the position shown in the degree of insertion of each post relative to its associated hole will vary as a function of the deflection of the bridge .

As best shown in each post preferably includes a stem and a cap . The stem is integral with and of the same material as the bridge while the cap is formed from a portion of the lattice membrane . The cap is attached to the upper or free end of each stem and it is the movement of the cap relative to the lattice hole which varies the degree of insertion of the posts relative to the lattice holes .

With reference again to in order to deflect the bridge relative to the lattice structure a pair of electrical contacts and illustrated only diagrammatically are attached to the bridge and substrate in any conventional fashion. A voltage potential applied to the contacts and will cause the bridge to deflect relative to the crystal membrane due to the coulombic attraction between the bridge and the substrate . The magnitude of that voltage potential in turn determines the amount of the deflection of the bridge and thus the degree of insertion of the posts into their corresponding holes in the lattice structure .

In the well known fashion the posts when inserted into their corresponding holes in the lattice structure form a defect line which enables light propagation in single mode through the lattice structure . Conversely when the posts are retracted from their corresponding holes in the lattice structure the lattice structure forms a band gap at the operating wavelength of the band gap device. However by varying the voltage potential across the electrical contacts and and thus the degree of insertion of the posts into the lattice holes the band gap device may be selectively configured as different optical devices including but not limited to a transmission waveguide switch intensity modulator phase modulator true time delay line and the like.

With reference now to a method for making the photonic band gap device of the present invention will now be described in detail. As best shown in a wafer is first formed having the semiconductor crystalline substrate . Any conventional material such as gallium arsenide may be used as the substrate .

A sacrificial layer is then formed on one side of the substrate so that the sacrificial layer overlies and covers the substrate . The sacrificial layer is made of a crystalline material compatible with the substrate but which can be selectively etched by a chosen wet chemical that does not etch the membrane layer and or substrate material such as aluminum gallium arsenide AlGaAs where x1 is in the range of 0.45 to 1.0. Any conventional means such as molecular beam epitaxial MBE growth may be used to form the sacrificial layer .

A bridge layer made of a semiconductor crystalline material compatible with the sacrificial layer is then formed so that the bridge layer overlies and covers the sacrificial layer . The bridge layer may be formed of any compatible material such as an alloy of the substrate and preferably comprises aluminum gallium arsenide AlGaAs where x2 is in the range of 0.3 to 0.6. The aluminum content of the bridge layer is at least ten percent less than the aluminum content of the sacrificial layer for a reason to be subsequently described. In addition the bridge layer may be formed by any conventional means such as MBE growth.

The crystal membrane then overlies the bridge layer . The membrane is of a crystalline material compatible with the bridge layer and is preferably made of gallium arsenide. The thickness of the membrane is determined by the waveguiding mode of the operating light. For example the bridge layer is preferably in the range of 1 to 6 microns whereas the crystal membrane is approximately 0.3 microns in thickness for single mode waveguide with 1550 nm operation light wavelength.

With reference now to the lattice structure with its holes is formed through the membrane by any conventional method such as electron beam lithography and reactive ion plasma etching. The shape size and spacing of the holes relative to each other define the band gap characteristics of the photonic device . In addition portions of the membrane which form the caps of the posts are left intact after the plasma etch.

In addition to forming the lattice holes during the plasma etch additional portions and of the membrane adjacent and alongside the lattice structure are also removed from the membrane in order to isolate the sides of the lattice structure . Similarly portions adjacent one end of the lattice structure and portions adjacent the other end of the lattice structure of the membrane are also removed from the membrane during the plasma etch. By removing the portions and from the membrane the remaining membrane in between the removed portions of the membrane form the optical input to the lattice structure while similarly the remaining membrane between the removed portions of the membrane form the optical output for the photonic device .

With reference now to using standard photoresist material and standard photolithography procedures a first elongated trench is formed through the photoresist material across the input end of the lattice structure . Similarly a second elongated trench is also formed across the lattice structure adjacent the output end of the lattice structure .

A chosen acid as chemical etcher is then applied to the trenches and under the membrane layer though the holes . The acid is selected so that both the substrate and crystal membrane are substantially impervious to the acid while the crystalline alloys used to form both the sacrificial layer and bridge layer are susceptible to the acid. For example hydrofluoric acid is preferably used to perform the acid etch where the substrate and membrane comprise gallium arsenide while the sacrificial layer and bridge layer comprise aluminum alloys of gallium arsenide.

Since the sacrificial layer has a higher aluminum content than the bridge layer preferably at least 10 greater the acid introduced into the trenches and effectively and rapidly removes the sacrificial layer from the wafer in the area directly aligned with and below the lattice structure . This in turn creates a void in the wafer beneath the bridge layer and in alignment with the lattice structure . Conversely the bridge layer is less susceptible to the acid due to its lower aluminum content so that as best shown in the bridge remains substantially intact between the trenches . Following this acid etch the photoresist material is removed in the conventional fashion.

With reference to a second and relatively shorter acid etch is then applied to the lattice structure . In doing so the acid flows through the holes in the lattice structure and thus etches a portion of the bridge layer beneath the membrane and around the caps of the posts . This acid etch however is carefully controlled so that the etch time and acid concentration is sufficient to separate the bridge layer from the membrane as shown in while retaining the attachment of the posts to the bridge layer . The lattice structure is selected so that the holes and posts are much larger in diameter than the wall thickness of the lattice structure between adjacent holes . Consequently although some undercutting of the stems of the posts will occur during this acid etch the post stems remain substantially intact despite complete undercutting of the bridge layer beneath the walls of the lattice structure .

Thereafter electrical contacts are applied to the bridge layer through a contact pad and substrate in any conventional fashion.

From the foregoing it can be seen that the present invention provides a reconfigurable photonic band gap device and a method of making the same which overcomes all of the disadvantages of the previously known devices. More specifically by controlling the degree of insertion of the posts into their corresponding lattice holes the photonic device of the present invention can be configured to perform any of a number of different photonic functionalities.

Having described my invention however many modifications thereto will become apparent to those skilled in the art to which it pertains without deviation from the spirit of the invention as defined by the scope of the appended claims.

