---

title: Rapid 4-Stokes parameter determination via Stokes filter wheel
abstract: A system for determining polarization profiles of points in a scene from video frames using Stokes parameters includes a scene having a region that emits scene light rays that correspond to the points in the scene, an optical chopper controller, a rotating Stokes filter wheel that includes five trigger holes, three rotating linear polarizers, a circular polarizer, and a reference screen, a color filter, a video camera having a video frame, and a computer system having a frame grabber apparatus. The scene light rays are transmitted through the Stokes filter and the color filter to the video camera. Images corresponding to the scene light rays are projected onto respective pixels in the video frame and recorded as two-dimensional (2-D) arrays, and the images corresponding to the scene light rays from four unique images, obtained from light transmitted consecutively through three linear polarizers and a circular polarizer of the rotating Stokes filter wheel, are used by programming in the computer system to calculate respective Stokes parameters of the points in the scene.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07295312&OS=07295312&RS=07295312
owner: United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07295312
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060510
---
The present invention may relate to applications having Ser. Nos. 10 822 355 filed Apr. 13 2004 and 11 158 357 filed Jun. 20 2005 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The invention described here may be made used and licensed by and for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without paying royalty to us.

The present invention generally relates to a system and method for rapidly determining Stokes parameters.

The Stokes method provides a seminal method for the determination of a state of polarization of a beam of light using measurable quantities. The Stokes method includes the process of measuring four intensities of the light beam. Each measurement corresponds to the intensity of the light beam after the light beam passes through each of four different filter system arrangements. The four Stokes parameters by convention are generally designated S S S and S. The four Stokes parameters are derived from the four measured light beam intensities and form a four element column vector in four dimensional mathematical space.

Since the discovery of the Stokes method in 1852 many conventional filter systems based on the Stokes method have been developed. Typically in conventional approaches four separate unique images are used to calculate the Stokes parameters for each element in a scene. A manually rotated retarder and a linear polarizer are used in conventional approaches to obtain the data used for determining the Stokes parameters.

However the conventional approaches of using the Stokes parameters for acquiring polarization information from images have the deficiencies of sometimes having errors in temporal registration and in spatial registration. The temporal registration errors occur because of the capture time differential to generate separate images in conventional approaches. The capture time differential can affect polarization measurements that are taken outdoors when changing sun position cloud position and the like change the intensity or the polarization state of the light entering the filter system. Indoors e.g. in a laboratory temperature atmospheric pressure and density or concentration of variations associated with scene elements can change the polarization state of the light entering the filter system during the time duration used to record four separate images.

Spatial registration errors can occur when conventional approaches are used whenever the scene is imaged onto the image plane of the camera from different positions. For example when four adjacent lenses are used to simultaneously image the scene on the image plane of the camera each lens will obtain an image of the scene from a slightly different perspective. As such the four images will be different and spatial errors can occur.

Thus there exists a need and an opportunity for an improved system and an improved method for the determination of polarization profiles of points in a scene from video frames. Such an improved system and method may overcome one or more of the deficiencies of the conventional approaches.

Accordingly the present invention may provide an improved system and an improved method for the determination of polarization profiles of points in a scene from video frames using rapidly determined Stokes parameters. The present invention may significantly reduce temporal errors and eliminate spatial errors when compared to conventional approaches for determining Stokes parameters. The present invention generally comprises an optical chopper controller a motorized rotating Stokes filter wheel a narrowband color filter a high speed video camera and a computer system including a frame grabber and software to coordinate operation of the optical chopper controller the frame grabber and the video camera and a polarization calibration standard.

Light from points in a scene are generally transmitted through the system and exit from the system having respective intensities that may be uniquely attenuated for each wavelength of the light. A narrowband color filter is generally used to select a particular wavelength. The respective attenuated intensities in each of four scene images are generally used to calculate the respective Stokes parameters for selected points in the scene for the selected wavelength.

The system and method of the present invention may express the Stokes parameters explicitly as a function of wavelength. As such the present invention may overcome the deficiency of the different phase differential for each individual wavelength that is typically introduced by the retarder that is implemented in conventional approaches.

A polarization standard that generally comprises a linear polarizer and a circular polarizer of known azimuth and angle of ellipticity may be included in the scene to provide testing for the introduction of pseudo polarization parameters. The Stokes parameters may be calculated for each point in the scene.

The present invention generally provides for obtaining the four Stokes parameters more rapidly when compared with conventional approaches. The present invention may provide for the generation of video images having changing polarization and may reduce minimize or eliminate spatial and temporal registration errors when compared to conventional approaches.

According to the present invention a system for determining polarization profiles of points in a scene from video frames using Stokes parameters is provided. The present invention generally comprises an optical chopper controller a motorized rotating Stokes filter wheel a narrowband color filter a high speed video camera a computer system including a frame grabber and software to coordinate the operation of the optical chopper controller the frame grabber and the video camera and a polarization calibration standard.

Images corresponding to the scene light rays may be projected onto respective pixels in the video frame and recorded as two dimensional 2 D arrays. The images corresponding to the scene light rays from four unique images obtained from light transmitted consecutively and rapidly through three linear polarizers and a circular polarizer of the rotating Stokes filter wheel are generally used by programming in the computer system to calculate respective Stokes parameters of the points in the scene.

Further according to the present invention a method of reducing spatial and temporal errors in polarization profiles of points in a scene from video frames using Stokes parameters that are obtained via the system described above is provided.

The above features and other features and advantages of the present invention are readily apparent from the following detailed descriptions thereof when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings.

The present application generally describes a system and a method of determination of Stokes parameters for a given example. However one of ordinary skill in the art would understand that the system and method described herein may be implemented to meet the design criteria or to optimize the Stokes parameter determination of any particular application using the more general formulae as presented for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 158 357 filed Jun. 20 2005 which as noted previously is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

With reference to the preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail. Generally the present invention provides an improved system and an improved method for the determination of polarization profiles of points in a scene from video frames using Stokes parameters. In particular the present invention may advantageously generate the Stokes parameters more rapidly and accurately than conventional approaches. The present invention generally includes an optical chopper controller that is implemented in connection with a mechanical device e.g. a wheel rotated by a precision motor the wheel having apertures through which light rays pass to form an optical chopper.

The optical chopper controller generally performs at least two operations. The optical chopper controller may be configured to set i.e. determine establish etc. the rotation frequency of the Stokes filter wheel e.g. via a control signal ROT and may also be configured to send pulsed trigger signals e.g. TTL 5 volt signals TRIG to a frame grabber apparatus and a video camera to activate a shutter in the video camera. During each rotation of the Stokes filter wheel five circular trigger holes that are located around the perimeter of the Stokes filter wheel generally pass through a sensor.

The sensor may in one example see comprise an infrared transmitter and an infrared receiver. As a trigger hole in the Stokes filter wheel passes through the sensor the trigger or synchronization signal or command TRIG may be generated by the sensor i.e. the infrared receiver . The trigger signal may be sent transmitted to and received by the video camera via the optical chopper controller and the frame grabber. The voltage associated with the synchronization trigger signal generally activates the shutter of the video camera to provide synchronization of the video camera and the Stokes filter wheel.

The trigger holes around the perimeter of the Stokes filter wheel are generally substantially equally spaced and are positioned such that a polarization element e.g. a polarizer that is inlayed i.e. inset fixed positioned mounted disposed etc. in the Stokes filter wheel is present in the field of view of the video camera when the shutter of the video camera is open. That is the light rays that are emitted from points in the scene are optically chopped.

The Stokes filter wheel generally further includes five oval shaped filter reference apertures. The oval shaped filter reference apertures are generally disposed adjacent to a respective circular trigger hole and towards the center of the Stokes filter wheel. The oval shaped filter reference wheels are large i.e. at least three times larger in total area than the respective circular holes .

The five large filter reference apertures on the Stokes filter wheel generally include respectively three linear polarizers one circular polarizer and a reference screen. The reference screen is generally implemented to identify a completed revolution of the rotating Stokes filter wheel. The linear and circular polarizers assembled in the Stokes filter wheel may have any orientation however to simplify calculations and to optimize results when one of the linear polarizers enters the field of view of the video camera the orientation of the transmission axis of the linear polarizer may be one of horizontal vertical and 45 degrees from the horizontal. When the circular polarizer appears in the field of view of the video camera the fast axis of the retarder element of the circular polarizer may be vertical.

The large filter reference apertures of the Stokes filter wheel may be substantially oval shaped. The oval shaped filter reference apertures may reduce or eliminate the possibility of a reduction in the field of view of the video camera during exposure as can occur when circular apertures are implemented to hold the respective filters.

Each closure of the shutter of the video camera generally sends transmits the recorded image e.g. an image VIDIM to the frame grabber apparatus. The frame grabber may format the image according to preset i.e. predetermined pre selected chosen etc. instructions in coordinating software and store the image in memory of a computer.

The present invention may reduce temporal registration errors when compared to conventional approaches for using Stokes parameters by implementing a precision motor for the rotation of the Stokes filter wheel. The degree of precision that is implemented is generally selected to provide registration error reduction to a predetermined level.

Because positive ellipticity is generally introduced into the imagery when the light increases between exposures and negative ellipticity is generally introduced into the imagery when the light decreases between exposures the present invention may include a polarization standard in the scene to determine the validity of the data. The polarization standard generally comprises a linear polarizer and a circular polarizer.

The present invention may reduce or eliminate spatial registration errors when compared to conventional approaches by implementing a single lens for imaging onto the image plane of the video camera.

The system and method of the present invention generally provide for determining polarization profiles of a scene via near real time calculation of the respective Stokes parameters. The present invention generally comprises an optical chopper controller the polarization calibration standard the motorized rotating Stokes filter wheel a narrowband color filter a high speed video camera having a video frame and a computer system containing the frame grabber and respective software to coordinate operation of the optical chopper controller the frame grabber and the video camera. The polarization calibration standard generally comprises a calibrated linear polarizer and a calibrated circular polarizer.

The motorized rotating Stokes filter wheel generally comprises five trigger holes and five respective unique filter reference apertures with inlayed polarization elements. The Stokes filter wheel is generally attached to a precision high speed motor. An optical chopper controller generally supplies i.e. provides generates etc. a variable frequency control signal i.e. the signal ROT to the Stokes filter wheel motor. Three of the filters in the filter reference apertures generally comprise linear polarizers each having a different e.g. horizontal vertical and 45 degrees orientation with respect to light rays received from the scene. A fourth filter in one of the filter reference apertures generally comprises a circular polarizer and the fifth filter reference aperture generally includes the reference screen which is used to indicate a completed revolution of the rotating Stokes filter wheel.

The present invention generally calculates the four Stokes parameters i.e. the parameters S S S and S for each individual image pixel using four two dimensional 2 D images from the video camera i.e. four video images VIDIM and appropriate polarization determination equations described in detail below .

Light from the scene may be transmitted generally as rays through the motorized rotating Stokes filter wheel. The rotating Stokes filter wheel generally comprises three linear polarizers and a circular polarizer that correspond to the four video images VIDIM that are used to calculate the four Stokes parameters and a blank reference i.e. a video image VIDIM that indicates a completed revolution of the Stokes filter wheel . The light that exits the Stokes filter wheel has generally been attenuated and may be recorded using the video camera and computer system. The video camera generally includes an array generally a 2 D array of light receptors that operate to form respective pixels of a video frame i.e. the video frame that corresponds to the video image VIDIM .

The high speed video camera generally determines the intensity i.e. level amount etc. of the attenuation to the light transmitted through the system of the present invention. The present invention may generate uniquely attenuated images of the light from the scene on each video frame.

Also according to the present invention a computer e.g. processor microprocessor controller etc. may be implemented with appropriate programming e.g. software firmware and the like stored in suitable memory e.g. RAM PROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory and the like to perform processes i.e. instructions routines algorithms steps blocks methods operations equations etc. of the present invention including a cropping e.g. editing process for the selection of corresponding elements from each frame containing images of the scene A calibration equation may also be implemented via the computer programming to convert respective pixel values to optical densities and the optical densities may be converted to relative intensities.

Each scene image generally comprises a rectangular array of pixel values i.e. a matrix that corresponds to the attenuated intensities of the light that is transmitted through the motorized rotating Stokes filter wheel. The calibration equation generally converts respective pixel values to optical densities and to relative intensities.

Four unique scene images VIDIM that are related to correspond to the four filters in the oval shaped filter apertures of the Stokes filter wheel are generally selected as the basis for calculation of the Stokes parameters for each pixel in the scene. Polarization parameters including the degree of polarization polarization azimuth angle and polarization ellipticity angle may be calculated for each pixel using the Stokes parameters associated with each pixel value.

The present invention generally provides for the association of red green blue RGB values with normalized values of the Stokes parameters. The present invention generally provides for close to i.e. nearly substantially about etc. real time generation of video images having changing polarization values. The total time duration to acquire four unique images of a scene is generally governed by i.e. corresponds to is related to etc. the frame rate of the video camera in association with the Stokes filter wheel rotational speed as determined by the control signal ROT. The frame rate of the video camera is generally synchronized to rotating speed angular velocity of the motorized rotating Stokes filter wheel via the synchronization or trigger signal TRIG that is generated by the optical chopper controller in connection with the circular trigger holes in the Stokes filter wheel i.e. the signal ROT may be generated by the optical chopper controller at least in part in response to the signal TRIG . When the calculated polarization parameters that are obtained from the polarization standard are determined to fail to match the respective known values that have been predetermined in a laboratory under controlled lighting conditions temporal registration errors or improper conditioning may have occurred and the data is generally considered invalid.

The system and method of the present invention may be advantageously implemented in connection with any appropriate wavelength of light e.g. visible infrared ultraviolet etc. . The system and method of the present invention may be advantageously implemented in connection with any appropriate video recording protocol or format e.g. analog digital etc. . The computer programming of the present invention may be configured to provide for processing that includes cropping editing curve fitting mathematical calculations manipulation of video frames pseudo coloring of polarization parameters and conversion of images into at least one standard format.

Referring generally to in combination a system of the present invention is shown. The system generally comprises a computer system having a frame grabber apparatus a high speed video camera an optical chopper controller a sensor a motor and a rotating Stokes filter wheel . The computer system may be internally electrically coupled to the frame grabber the frame grabber apparatus may be electrically coupled to the optical chopper controller and to the video camera and the chopper controller may also be electrically coupled to the sensor and to the motor . The computer system generally contains appropriate programming to perform the operations i.e. processes calculations steps blocks algorithms etc. of the present invention.

The system may be implemented as a system for the determination of polarization profiles of points in a scene from video frames using Stokes parameters i.e. the parameters S S S and S . The system of the present invention generally provides at least one system and method for obtaining polarization profiles from the video camera . The system of the present invention generally produces i.e. generates provides etc. a sufficient number of unique scene images to obtain i.e. generate calculated determine etc. the respective four Stokes parameters in nearly i.e. with very insignificant time delay substantially almost about approximately etc. real time.

The total time duration to obtain the four images generally used to obtain the four Stokes parameters S S S and Sfor each pixel in the scene is generally regulated by the rotational speed e.g. revolutions per minute RPM of a motorized rotating Stokes filter wheel and the frame rate e.g. frames per second FPS of the video camera . The Stokes filter wheel is generally mechanically coupled to and rotated by the motor . The motor is generally implemented as a precision motor i.e. a motor having rotational frequency stability about 250 ppm deg. C. and RMS phase jitter of less than 0.5 over all normal frequency ranges of operation . The rotational speed of the motor is generally determined i.e. established set chosen etc. in response to the control signal ROT.

The system generally includes the optical chopper controller the motorized rotating Stokes filter wheel the high speed video camera and the computer system generally includes the frame grabber apparatus . The system generally is used in connection with the scene . The scene is generally implemented having a horizontal axis x and a vertical axis y that is perpendicular to the x axis. A z axis is generally mutually perpendicular to the x and y axes. The system generally further comprises a polarization standard that is implemented in connection with e.g. within a region of the scene .

A user e.g. operator etc. of the system generally desires to obtain polarization information regarding elements of the scene . An optical chopper is generally implemented as a mechanical or electromechanical device for passing and then interrupting a beam of light for a known brief interval of time. The optical chopper controller and the rotating Stokes filter wheel generally comprise an implementation of an optical chopper. The control signal ROT may be generated by the optical chopper controller in response to the frame rate of the video camera and the synchronization trigger signal TRIG.

A frame grabber apparatus i.e. subsystem circuit device etc. is generally a component of a computer system that is implemented to perform digitizing analog video signals. A typical implementation of a frame grabber comprises a circuit to recover the horizontal and vertical synchronization pulses from the input signal an analog to digital converter a NTSC SECAM PAL color decoder circuit which may be implemented in software a memory for storing the acquired image e.g. a frame buffer a bus interface to the main processor in the computer system for acquisition control and data access. Frame grabbers such as the apparatus generally store and also compress video frames in substantially real time using algorithms such as MPEG JPG TIF and the like or any other appropriate format to meet the design criteria of a particular application.

The frequency i.e. rate of revolution angular velocity etc. of the rotating Stokes filter wheel is generally selected e.g. chosen determined varied controlled adjusted etc. via the signal ROT that is generated by the optical chopper controller in connection with the computer system and sent to the Stokes filter wheel via an electrical connection e.g. electrical coupling interface wiring cable interconnect etc. . As such the controller may control the rotation of the Stokes filter wheel in response to the signal ROT which is generally a variable frequency control signal. The optical chopper controller and the computer system may generate the control signal ROT such that the angular velocity and angular acceleration of the rotating Stokes filter wheel are controlled within predetermined limits. The rotational speed of the motor is generally set once prior to data acquisition to meet the criteria of a particular application.

The computer system may be used to select a mode of operation e.g. internal triggering external triggering etc. provided as desired by the user the region of interest ROI the pixel area to be used in the exposure and the exposure time of the video camera via a control or selection signal e.g. a control signal MODE . The computer system may be electrically coupled to the frame grabber subsystem . The respective selections MODE are generally transmitted to the frame grabber via an internal electrical connection and the frame grabber may transmit the respective selections via the control signal MODE to the video camera via an electrical connection .

The rotating Stokes filter wheel generally comprises five trigger holes e.g. holes and three linear polarizers e.g. polarizers and that are generally sequentially positioned about the Stokes filter wheel a circular polarizer e.g. polarizer and a reference screen e.g. the reference screen . When one of the trigger hole and passes between an infrared transmitter and an infrared receiver that are implemented in connection with the sensor see respective trigger signals TRIG may be generated and sent to the optical chopper controller via an electrical connection .

The three linear polarizers and the circular polarizer and the reference screen are generally consecutively mounted e.g. inset inlayed fixed etc. into oval ellipsoidal shaped filter reference apertures in the Stokes filter wheel . The oval shaped filter reference apertures generally have a smaller axis e.g. axis SA that is radially disposed on the Stokes filter wheel and a larger axis e.g. axis LA that is disposed in a circular band e.g. a band centered on a radius RI on the Stokes filter wheel .

The apertures that correspond to the filters reference screen and are generally disposed radially internally towards the center with respect to corresponding respective trigger holes on the Stokes filter wheel . That is the circular polarizer may be radially internal to the trigger hole the linear polarizer may be radially internal to the trigger hole the linear polarizer may be radially internal to the trigger hole the linear polarizer may be radially internal to the trigger hole and the reference screen may be radially internal to the trigger hole . The trigger holes and are generally disposed sequentially consecutively on the Stokes filter wheel in a circular band e.g. a band centered on a radius RO that is radially outward from the circular band RI in which the filter reference apertures and are disposed sequentially consecutively . The trigger holes and and the filter reference apertures and are generally substantially equally spaced around the Stokes filter wheel .

The optical chopper controller generally sends a capture control signal e.g. CAPT e.g. a 5 volt TTL voltage or alternatively any other appropriate signal to meet the design criteria of a particular application to the frame grabber via an electrical connection when the optical chopper controller receives the trigger signal TRIG from the sensor .

The computer program in the system internally transmits to the frame grabber apparatus a frame grab control signal e.g. GRAB that determines a selected number of video frames VIDIM for capture by the frame grabber apparatus and a starting time for the capture of the video frames VIDIM.

The frame grabber apparatus generally sends the capture control signal CAPT to the video camera via the electrical connection when the optical chopper controller receives the trigger signal TRIG from the sensor . The video camera generally sends a captured video frame i.e. the image VIDIM to the frame grabber via an electrical connection when the shutter of the video camera closes. The electrical couplings and generally transmit receive the respective trigger control and video image signals e.g. the signals CAPT MODE TRIG ROT and VIDIM . The frame grabber apparatus generally formats e.g. generates an appropriate image file in a protocol such as BMP JPG TIF MPEG etc. the raw image frame data VIDIM from the video camera and saves the formatted image file to a hard drive not shown in the computer system . The saved i.e. recorded captured held stored etc. image file VIDIM is generally processed via the computer system to generate the respective Stokes parameters as detailed below.

Referring specifically to the video camera generally comprises a lens and the video frame that generally includes the scene image . The video frame generally comprises an array of light sensitive receptors e.g. CCD elements that may correspond to pixels in the scene . However the video frame may be implemented using any appropriate receptors to meet the design criteria of a particular application. The polarization standard generally comprises a linear polarizer and a circular polarizer . The polarization standard is generally implemented in a region of the scene that is peripheral to points for which the user desires to generate corresponding polarization profiles.

A region of the scene generally presents i.e. emanates sends projects emits etc. rays i.e. beam light etc. that may be received by i.e. transmitted to the Stokes filter wheel . The ray may be a scene ray. The ray is generally emitted in the direction of the z axis. The user of the system generally desires the polarization parameters related to corresponding to the region of the scene that presents the rays .

The Stokes filter wheel may present a respective ray to a narrowband color filter . The narrowband color filter may present a respective ray to the lens of the video camera . The lens of the video camera may present a respective ray to the video frame as the respective scene image . Light rays e.g. the rays and are generally presented along the optical axis of the system i.e. along the z axis .

With continued reference to in connection with the polarization standard the linear polarizer i.e. the polarization standard linear polarizer may present a ray and the circular polarizer i.e. the polarization standard circular polarizer may present a ray . The rays are generally a polarization standard linear polarizer ray and a polarization standard circular polarizer ray respectively. The rays are generally transmitted through the Stokes filter wheel i.e. through one of the polarizers and through the color filter and the video camera i.e. through the lens to the video frame and may form respective polarization standard images on the video frame . The image generally corresponds to the ray and the image generally corresponds to the ray . The images may be integral to a peripheral region of the scene image .

Because the four unique images VIDIM that are used to determine the Stokes parameters are not generally acquired instantaneously i.e. not substantially simultaneously the polarization standard may be implemented e.g. placed in the scene to provide for testing the validity of recorded data e.g. recorded versions of the video frame VIDIM . Data is generally rejected as invalid when the polarization parameters of the standard e.g. polarization parameters that correspond to the polarization standard images such as degree of polarization azimuth angles and ellipticity angles fail to correspond to respective known e.g. predetermined expected etc. values e.g. amounts levels etc. . The respective known values are generally obtained i.e. measured predetermined etc. in a laboratory under controlled lighting and other relevant parameter conditions.

The linear and circular polarizers e.g. the polarizers and assembled in the Stokes filter wheel may have any orientation when appearing in the field of view of video camera . However in one example to simplify calculations and to optimize results the transmission axes of the linear polarizers and the fast axis of the circular polarizer may have the following orientations i linear polarizer may be horizontally oriented when the trigger hole is at the sensor ii the transmission axis of linear polarizer may be vertically oriented when trigger hole is at the sensor iii the transmission axis of linear polarizer may be oriented at an angle of 45 degrees to the horizontal when trigger hole is at the sensor and iv the fast axis of the circular polarizer may be vertically oriented when trigger hole is at the sensor .

With continued reference to light from the scene e.g. the ray is generally incident upon the Stokes filter wheel . The ray may be transmitted through one of the three linear polarizers i.e. the polarizers and the circular polarizer or alternatively may be incident on the opaque reference screen . The ray is generally transmitted through the linear polarizer with the respective transmission axis horizontally oriented when the trigger hole is at the sensor . The ray is generally transmitted through the linear polarizer with the respective transmission axis vertically oriented when trigger hole is at the sensor . The ray is generally transmitted through the linear polarizer with the respective transmission axis oriented at an angle of 45 degree to the horizontal when the trigger hole is at the sensor . The ray is generally transmitted through the circular polarizer with the respective fast axis horizontally oriented when the trigger hole is at the sensor . As the reference screen is opaque optical transmission through the reference screen is generally impossible. The respective blank video image VIDIM related to the ray that is generally incident on the reference screen may identify indicate a completed revolution of the rotating Stokes filter wheel .

The light that exits from the rotating Stokes filter wheel e.g. the ray may be transmitted through the narrowband color filter . The light that exits from the narrowband color filter e.g. the ray may be transmitted through the lens of the video camera . The light that exits from the lens of the video camera e.g. the ray is generally focused or projected onto the video frame to form i.e. generate produce etc. the image and the respective video image VDIM of the scene .

All of the video frames e.g. the video frame are generally downloaded as the respective video images VIDIM into the computer system via the connection and the frame grabber . The images i.e. the images VIDIM may be stored e.g. written to memory held etc. for processing by the computer e.g. controller processor etc. system using appropriate programming. Computer programming is generally stored on appropriate media i.e. memory such as RAM ROM PROM etc. not shown in the computer system and in one example implemented to crop e.g. edit trim etc. selected e.g. chosen picked etc. corresponding picture elements pixels from each 2 D image . The pixel values of each video frame e.g. the image VIDIM may form a matrix M. The computer programming generally identifies the pixel values of the video image VIDIM that corresponds to the reference screen as an indicator that the rotating Stokes filter wheel has completed a revolution and that a new set of video images VIDIM are to be recorded.

The chopper controller transmits the speed control signal ROT to the motor to control rotational speed of the motor and a computer program in the system sends mode control signals MODE to the video camera to establish the mode of operation and exposure time. The computer program in the computer internally transmits the frame grab control signal GRAB to the frame grabber apparatus . The frame grab control signal GRAB determines a selected number of video frames VIDIM for capture by the frame grabber apparatus and a starting time for the capture of the video frames.

When the frame grabber initiates video image capture via the capture control signal CAPT the chopper controller receives the trigger signal TRIG from the sensor and generates the capture control signal CAPT in response to the trigger signal TRIG and transmits the capture control signal CAPT to the frame grabber apparatus and the frame grabber apparatus transmits the capture control signal CAPT to the video camera to activate exposure and the video camera transmits the captured video image VIDIM to the frame grabber to be processed by the computer program in the system .

Because the Stokes parameters generally use intensity I measurements and the light sensor array in the video camera generally records RGB values x a relationship between x and I is generally obtained for the light sensor array of all recorded frames i.e. the images VIDIM . In one example a calibration method for obtaining the relationship between x and I is to pass a beam or ray of light through neutral density filters of different optical densities y and to record or otherwise determine an average x value for each respective y value. One of ordinary skill in the art would understand that the x and y of the intensity I relationship e.g. Equations 1 3 below is generally different from the relative Cartesian coordinates x and y. Curve fitting e.g. performed using programming via the computer system generally yields y as a function of x as follows. Equation 1 

Because some light sensor arrays may be implemented as multi channel arrays a relationship between RGB values x and optical densities y is generally obtained for each channel. The optical density y is generally related to the intensity I using the relationship as follows. I 10 Equation 2 

Equation 1 may be substituted into the Equation 2 to yield a calibration relationship between I and x as follows I 10 Equation 3 

Using Equation 3 each pixel value x in each of the scene matrices M M M. . . Mcan be converted to a respective intensity value in new intensity matrices I I I. . . I.

Four consecutive intensity matrices e.g. I I I I may be used to obtain the Stokes parameters for each point in the scene . Equation 4 may be used to calculate the Stokes parameters for each point in scene as follows sin sin cos sin cos 2 sin sin sin cos sin cos 2 sin cos 2 sin Equation 4 where is the angular rotation of the Stokes filter wheel during exposure. is a function of the frame rate F of the Stokes filter wheel and the exposure time t according to 72 degrees .

The equation for the fourth Stokes parameter S as given in Equation 4 is based on a left circular polarizer i.e. the transmitted electric field vectors rotate counter clock wise . As circular polarizers such as the polarizer are generally implemented using birefringent materials e.g. at least one quarter wave retarder a phase difference which is wavelength dependent may occur between light traveling along the fast and slow axes. The relationship between and is generally determined before the system is used to accurately determine the fourth Stokes parameter. A birefringent material may be implemented as an optically anisotropic material such as calcite and quartz that generally provides for the splitting of a light wave into two transmitted waves having different velocities.

Each of the corresponding elements in the matrices S S S S e.g. elements s s s sare generally associated with a point x y i.e. a point having Cartesian coordinates with respective horizontal and vertical values x and y in the scene . Thus the polarization state of points x y in the scene can be determined e.g. calculated using programming that may be stored in a medium in the computer system using the relationships as follows. sin 2 tan 2 Equations 5 

Where is the polarization ellipticity angle is the polarization azimuth angle and P is the degree of polarization.

As is apparent then from the above detailed description the present invention may provide an improved system and an improved method for acquiring sufficient data to rapidly measure the four Stokes parameters when compared to conventional approaches. The present invention may reduce or eliminate temporal errors and spatial errors that can be generated when conventional approaches are implemented.

Various alterations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention and it is understood this invention is limited only by the following claims.

