---

title: Weightlifting system with spotter platform
abstract: A weightlifting system includes a spotter platform which flanks a weight bench. The spotter platforms provide a surface raised above the base upon which a spotter may stand. The spotter platform may be articulated to a vertical stowed position to clear an area on the base for other exercises. The spotter platforms also provide fixed receipt areas within which the weight bench is received to provide proper weightlifter positioning while minimizing any relative movement between the weight bench and the weight bar frame rack.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07878958&OS=07878958&RS=07878958
owner: Rogers Athletic Company
number: 07878958
owner_city: Clare
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060105
---
The present invention relates to weightlifting equipment and more particularly to a spotter platform which receives a weight bench.

Weightlifters perform various exercises for the purpose of developing particular muscles throughout the body. These exercises can be performed through the use of free weights such as barbells or with machines. Many weightlifters prefer free weights because free weights permit the lifter to perform the exercises in a natural motion while utilizing pure body leverage in performing the exercise. This facilitates isolation of particular muscle groups and simulates actual athletic sports motions.

Oftentimes when utilizing free weights particularly when performing exercises on a weight bench a spotter assists the weightlifter. The spotter stands behind the weightlifter adjacent his head while the weightlifter is lying on the weight bench. The spotter typically assists the weightlifter with the few final repetitions in each set such that the weightlifter is able to continue lifting past the fatigue point at which he would no longer be able to lift the current weight unassisted. The spotter thereby maximizes the weightlifters work out for that exercise.

As the spotter is standing on the floor the spotter oftentimes must straddle the weightlifters head. Aside from being a somewhat uncomfortable position the spotter also has reduced leverage to assist the weightlifter should assistance be required and the spotter is required to lift a significant portion of the weight. This may be of particular concern while spotting for a weightlifter that is bench pressing significant weight.

Accordingly it is desirable to provide a weightlifting system that will better position the spotter while spotting the weightlifter.

A weightlifting system according to the present invention includes a spotter platform which flanks a weight bench. Each spotter platform is preferably attached to a base between upright frame members of a weight bar frame rack. The spotter platforms provide a surface raised above the deck upon which a spotter may stand. The spotter platforms provide a more comfortable position for both the spotter and the weightlifter while providing a leverage advantage to the spotter such that the spotter may more readily lift with his legs during spotting of the weightlifter. The spotter platform may be articulated to a vertical stowed position to clear an area on the deck for other exercises.

The spotter platforms also provide fixed receipt areas within which the weight bench is received to provide proper weightlifter positioning while minimizing any relative movement between the weight bench and the weight bar frame rack.

The present invention therefore desirable to provide a weightlifting system that will better position the spotter while spotting the weightlifter

The weight support assembly supports the weight bar between sets as generally understood. For further understanding of other aspects of the rack system attachment thereto and associated components thereof attention is directed to U.S. patent application No. 11 326 099 filed Jan. 5 2006 and entitled WEIGHTLIFTING SUPPORT ASSEMBLY which is assigned to the assignee of the instant invention and which is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety.

The frame rack includes a multitude of openings O along an upright frame member which receive the weight support assembly such that the support assembly may be located at various positions along the frame rack . Each opening O is separated from the next by approximately four inches to provide significant incremental adjustment however any separation will be usable with the present invention.

Each upright frame member defines a longitudinal axis A which extends vertically relative to the ground. The upright frame member is generally rectilinear in shape and is preferably manufactured of tubing which is rectangular or U shaped in cross section. The upright frame member includes a front face and a first and second side face . Each opening O spans the intersection of the front face and one of the side faces . In other words each opening O cuts through the corner of the upright frame member . Each opening O includes a first opening portion O in the front face generally transverse to the longitudinal axis A and a second opening portion O through the respective side face generally parallel to the longitudinal axis A. That is the opening portions O and O are generally perpendicular if laid flat . Preferably each opening O includes relatively large corner radiuses.

The openings O are arranged in horizontally opposed pairs of openings Oa Ob perpendicular to the longitudinal axis A. That is each pair of openings O includes a first opening Oa located through the front face and the first side face and a second opening Ob located through the front face and the second side face such that the openings Oa Ob are aligned when viewed from one of the side faces .

A lock opening is located through the front face between each vertically separated pair of openings Oa Ob. Each lock opening is displaced parallel to the longitudinal axis A and is generally square in shape. It should be understood that other shapes will also be readily usable with the present invention. Preferably the lock opening is longitudinally staggered above each pair of openings Oa Ob.

A spotter platform is located adjacent each upright frame member to flank a weight bench . Each spotter platform is preferably attached to a deck between the upright frame members and may be articulated to a vertical stowed position to clear the deck for other exercises such as squats and the like. The spotter platforms provide a surface raised above the deck upon which a spotter may stand. The spotter platforms provide a more comfortable position for both the spotter and the weightlifter while providing a leverage advantage to the spotter such that the spotter may more readily lift with his legs during spotting of the weightlifter. The spotter platforms also provide fixed receipt areas within which the weight bench is received to provide proper weightlifter positioning while minimizing any relative movement between the weight bench and the weight bar frame rack as will be further described.

Referring to a right hand spotter platform RH is illustrated. Although the right hand spotter platform RH is illustrated in the disclosed embodiment it should be understood that the left hand spotter platform LH spotter platform is generally of the same construction and provides the same benefits such that a separate discussion thereof need not be provided.

The spotter platform RH generally includes a mount a frame assembly and a platform mounted to the frame assembly and mount also illustrated in . The mount is attached to the deck through bolts or like to provide a fixed attachment for the spotter platform RH LH . The mount is pivotally attached to the frame assembly at a first mount pivot and to the platform at a second mount pivot through a bolt or a pin which defines a first and a second mount axis of rotation M M. It should be understood that various axles or pivot pin arrangements which attach the two components together while providing pivotal movement about the axis may also be utilized with the present invention.

A handle knob assembly is mounted to the frame assembly generally between the first mount pivot and a second mount pivot for engagement with the mount to lock the spotter platform RH LH in either a down position or a stowed position . It should be understood that the spotter platform RH LH alternatively need not be locked in the down position.

The handle knob assembly is mounted to the frame assembly such that a biased latch member extends therethrough for engagement with the mount at either a down position aperture or a stowed position aperture formed in the mount . The latch member is preferably a pin which is biased by a spring or the like such that the latch member is engageable with either the down position aperture or a stowed position aperture . The handle knob assembly is actuated by pulling a knob to retract the latch member from either the down position aperture or the stowed position aperture such that the platform is movable relative the mount .

Referring to the frame assembly generally includes a base leg pivotally attached to a support leg at a pivot such as a bolt or a pin which defines an axis of rotation F. The base leg is attached to the mount at the first mount pivot . The support leg is attached to the platform at a platform pivot such as a bolt or pin which defines an axis of rotation P. The platform is attached to the mount at the mount pivot such as a bolt or pin which defines the axis of rotation M.

In use the knob of the handle knob assembly is pulled and the platform and frame assembly are pivoted about the first mount pivot and a second mount pivot to move the spotter platform RH LH between the down position FIGS. A and A C and the stowed position . As the handle knob assembly is spring biased the latch member will enter either the down position aperture or the stowed position aperture to thereby lock the spotter platform RH LH into the desired position. Alternatively the down position aperture need not be provided as the platform is supported by the frame assembly when in the down position.

Referring to the inner side of the base leg of the spotter platform RH LH further includes a weight bench position system . The weight bench position system preferably includes a front guide a spacer guide and a back stop guide which are separated by a first space and a second space . Preferably the front guide is generally wedge shaped to facilitate movement of the bench into the first space or the second space . The first space and the second space provide two positions for docking of the weight bench . It should be understood that any number of spaces may be provided.

The front guide a spacer guide and a back stop guide are preferably non metallic members to receive a transverse leg of the weigh bench . That is the transverse leg is generally transverse to a longitudinal axis B defined along the length of the weight bench . That is the transverse leg is selectively inserted into either the first space or the second space . Once located in either space the weight bench is then movable fore aft. That is the weight bench frame is moveable relative the transverse leg as illustrated in . A side handle preferably allows the weight lifter to move the weight bench to properly position himself under the weight bar. In one embodiment the weight bench can move 17 inches total travel. There are 10 positions within the 17 inch window as illustrated in so as to provide relatively significant positional ability for the weightlifter heretofore unavailable. For further understanding of other aspects of the weight bench system attention is directed to U.S. patent application No. 11 326 099 filed Jan. 5 2006 and entitled WEIGHTLIFTING BENCH WITH SYNCRONIZED BACKREST AND SEAT which is assigned to the assignee of the instant invention and which is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety.

It should be understood that relative positional terms such as forward aft upper lower above below and the like are with reference to the normal operational attitude and should not be considered otherwise limiting.

The foregoing description is exemplary rather than defined by the limitations within. Many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. The preferred embodiments of this invention have been disclosed however one of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that certain modifications would come within the scope of this invention. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described. For that reason the following claims should be studied to determine the true scope and content of this invention.

