---

title: Mobility middleware architecture for multiple radio access technology apparatus
abstract: A multiple radio access technology (RAT) apparatus with mobility middleware provides a user with access to various RAT networks, such as a frequency division duplex (FDD) network and a wireless local area network (WLAN). In one embodiment, the apparatus is a dual mode FDD/WLAN converged wireless communication handset which includes a terminal equipment (TE) module having mobility middleware, an applications and protocols processor and a terminal interface (TI). The dual mode FDD/WLAN converged wireless communication handset further includes a user services identity module (USIM), a mobile termination (MT) module and a protocol stack which interface with the mobility middleware via a plurality of links. In another embodiment, the multi-RAT apparatus is terminal equipment which includes a mobility middleware core module, a mobility middleware communication module, a driver and an insertably removable wireless communication device for providing a multiple radio transport medium to applications running in the terminal equipment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08190191&OS=08190191&RS=08190191
owner: InterDigital Technology Corporation
number: 08190191
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061212
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 751 332 filed Dec. 16 2005 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 792 777 filed Apr. 18 2006 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 862 326 filed Oct. 20 2006 which are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth.

The present invention is related to terminal equipment architecture. More particularly the present invention is related to mobility middleware which manages multiple radio access technologies RATs within terminal equipment.

Convergence is a term used for an emerging trend in the telecommunications and Internet industry to incorporate the functionality of many different types of devices into a single unit. It includes convergence of networks terminal devices and services. In the context of wireless communications a converged device typically has the capability to support multiple access technologies to communicate with different networks such as radio access technology e.g. IEEE 802.11 third generation partnership project 3GPP code division multiple access CDMA Bluetooth or the like or wired access technology e.g. Ethernet IEEE 802.3 .

One of the most challenging problems associated with a converged device is maintaining mobility across heterogeneous networks. Some standards groups address various parts of the mobility issues such as IEEE 802.21 which provides link layer intelligence to assist mobility or Internet Engineering Task Force IETF mobile Internet protocol IP for layer L3 mobility.

Currently the current high end market dominated by personal data assistant PDA and smartphone platforms predominantly uses dual processor hardware architectures one for modem plus one for applications .

In a 3GPP handset such as a dual mode universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS frequency division duplex FDD wireless local area network WLAN handset a mobile termination MT module is used to perform radio transmission and related functions a terminal equipment TE module contains end to end applications and a user services identity module USIM contains data and procedures which unambiguously and securely identify the handset.

Although present standards such as IETF mobile IP or IEEE 802.21 specify messaging to enable mobility they do not provide any implementation solution. Moreover some coordination is required between these mobility entities. However this coordination has not been addressed by any standard groups.

Furthermore it would be advantageous to provide a mobility middleware architecture where an application processor and the RAT networks are not in the same platform.

The present invention is related to a multiple RAT apparatus with mobility middleware which provides a user with access to various RAT networks such as an FDD network and a WLAN. In one embodiment the apparatus is a dual mode FDD WLAN converged wireless communication handset which includes a TE module having mobility middleware an applications and protocols processor and a terminal interface TI . The dual mode FDD WLAN converged wireless communication handset further includes a USIM an MT module and a protocol stack which interface with the mobility middleware via a plurality of links. In another embodiment the multi radio access technology apparatus is terminal equipment which includes a mobility middleware core module a mobility middleware communication module a driver and an insertably removable wireless communication device for providing a multiple radio transport medium to applications running in the terminal equipment.

The insertably removable wireless communication device may be an FDD wireless broadband WiMAX personal computer PC card. The mobility middleware comprises a set of functions including network detection network selection inter network handover parallel attach measurement multi access quality of service QoS security and power control.

When referred to hereafter the terminology wireless transmit receive unit WTRU includes but is not limited to a user equipment UE a mobile station a fixed or mobile subscriber unit a pager a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a computer a laptop or any other type of user device capable of operating in a wireless environment.

The present invention introduces a cross layer function called mobility middleware which refers to a set of functions that enable seamless mobility within heterogeneous networks and support for multiple services. These functions may include network detection network selection inter network handover parallel attach when the device is connected simultaneously to multiple access technologies measurement multi access QoS security and power control.

The mobility middleware does not sit in any specific protocol layer. The mobility middleware provides interaction across layers. The interactions with applications and access layers are done through an application program interface API .

The mobility middleware enables end user applications to run seamlessly as the middleware coordinates handovers across various technologies. For example a user of the 3GPP dual mode FDD WLAN converged wireless communication handset will not observe any disruption of a streaming video during a handover between a cellular network and a WLAN. The mobility middleware coordinates and controls mobility. For example the mobility middleware may determine that the WLAN radio interface is degrading and initiate a cellular stack in preparation for a handover. The mobility middleware may then trigger mobile IP to change a network path.

The TE module includes mobility middleware an applications and protocols processor and a terminal interface TI . The TE module the USIM the MT module and the IEEE 802.11 protocol stack may be incorporated on the same or separate chips or processors as desired. The applications and protocols processor runs end user applications which are the applications the user ultimately uses. The end user applications may include voice over IP VoIP video and the like. The applications and protocols processor further includes a session initiation protocol SIP client an IP suite a mobile IP client and an IEEE 802.21 interface which interfaces with the mobility middleware via link .

As defined in 3GPP standards the USIM includes an authentication and key agreement AKA cellular security module and an extensible authentication protocol EAP AKA WLAN security module . The security modules and exchange relevant security information with the mobility middleware via the link .

The MT module includes a 3GPP FDD non access stratum NAS and a 3GPP FDD access stratum AS . The NAS includes a 3GPP functions mobile network MN call control CC a session manager SM a general packet radio service GPRS mobility manager GMM and a radio access bearer manager RABM . The RABM handles all the types of radio access bearers RABs . The NAS further includes an attention command set interpreter ATC an ATC advanced technology attachment ATA an IP relay and a bit stream relay . The ATA ensures that ATC commands are exchanged between the TE module and the MT module .

The 3GPP FDD AS includes 3GPP L L L functions such as an FDD physical layer PHY an FDD medium access control layer MAC an FDD radio link control RLC a packet data compression protocol PDCP unit a broadcast and multicast control BMC unit and a radio resource control RRC . The IP relay exchanges IP packets RABs with the PDCP unit . The bit stream relay exchanges non IP based packets bit stream RABs e.g. voice data video telephony data and the like with the FDD RLC .

Both of the NAS and the AS include an IEEE 802.21 interface for communicating with the mobility middleware via the links and respectively.

The IEEE 802.11 protocol stack includes a logical link control LLC layer an IEEE 802.11 MAC layer an IEEE 802.11 PHY layer and a session management entity SME all of which interface with the mobility middleware via IEEE 802.21 interfaces and link .

As shown in the functions of the mobility middleware interact with other various entities within the 3GPP dual mode FDD WLAN converged wireless communication handset via links . As previously mentioned IEEE 802.21 interfaces are incorporated in block of the TE module in the 3GPP FDD NAS and the 3GPP FDD AS of the MT module and in the IEEE 802.21 protocol stack .

The mobility middleware refers to a set of functions that enable seamless mobility within heterogeneous networks and support multiple services.

One such function is a network detection function which allows a terminal to identify characteristics of surrounding networks.

Another function is a network selection function which within many access networks selects the access network that is most suitable for a subscriber s demand based on characteristics such as QoS system operator user profile application requirements and the like.

Yet another function is an inter network handover function which performs seamless handover from the previous network to the new selected network. The purpose is to provide service continuity to the user. The function interacts with others mobility functions such as Mobile IP and the like.

Yet another function is a parallel attach function which enables a device to be connected simultaneously to multiple access technologies to satisfy a particular QoS application. For example a voice call can be processed through a cellular system while a file transfer is processed through a WLAN. The parallel attach function interacts with the handover management and the IP layer for context transfer.

Yet another function is a measurement function which collects measurements received from various AT networks and provides input the others mobility middleware functions e.g. network selection power management and the like.

Yet another function is a multi access QoS function which insures that the QoS requirements for an application are addressed by the selected network.

Yet another function is a security function which processes the security operations necessary to provide a relevant security over AT and improve the inter network handover. For example the security function can pre authenticate users to reduce handover delay.

Yet another function is a power control function which coordinates power control function functions of each access technology to improve the battery life of the device.

Regarding the mobility middleware interaction with the IEEE 802.11 protocol stack via the link there is current IEEE 802.11 standardization work on the IEEE 802.11 MAC layer and the IEEE 802.11 PHY layer to support IEEE 802.21 primitives for media independent handover MIH services e.g. information events and commands . The IEEE 802.21 primitives may be incorporated into existing or new IEEE 802.11 primitives.

The interaction of the mobility middleware with the 3GPP FDD NAS via the link relies on a direct mapping between the IEEE 802.21 primitives i.e. information events commands and some NAS SM and GMM primitives which already exist. There is no change required by the SM and the GMM for the mobility middleware to work with the 3GPP FDD NAS .

For mobility middleware interaction with 3GPP FDD Access Stratum AS via the link mapping exists between the IEEE 802.21 primitives and the primitives of the FDD radio resource control RRC . There is no change required by the RRC for the mobility middleware to work with the 3GPP FDD AS .

The interaction of the mobility middleware with the mobile IP client via the link includes two aspects. One aspect is that IEEE 802.21 can trigger the mobile IP client to speed up handovers. For example when an IEEE 802.21 MIH link down event occurs the mobility middleware can forward the event trigger a mobile IP client thus triggering the TI to register with a foreign agent obtain care of address and send a binding update . This can reduce delay in the mobile IP handover procedures.

Another aspect is that there is on going IETF mobile IP standardization activity to support transport of IEEE 802.21 messages e.g. information events and commands between the TI and the network side over IP via the link . This method utilizes mobile IP as a vehicle to convey IEEE 802.21 messages between the mobile terminal and the network side thus minimizing the requirement of changes to existing functions on both sides.

The mobility middleware interacts with existing security functions and in the handset via the link to address security issues during handover. When a handover occurs between the UMTS and a WLAN network a security consistency must be insured. Thus an input from the UMTS security part e.g. AKA cellular security and the WLAN security part e.g. EAP AKA WLAN security are required by the mobility middleware to ensure this consistency.

Existing AT commands from the ATA may be used to convey commands to from mobility middleware via the links and .

The mobility middleware interacts with applications and service enabling protocols such as the SIP client via the link and the IEEE 802.21 interface . For example an application can have certain QoS requirements. The mobility middleware will be able to map the QoS requirement to the most suitable network.

The mobility middleware interacts with the IEEE 802.11 protocol stack via the link to facilitate handover procedures. When a handover from FDD to IEEE 802.11 is imminent due to the 3GPP dual mode FDD WLAN converged wireless communication handset moving from an area covered by a UMTS FDD network to an area covered by an IEEE 802.11 network. During handover the mobility middleware may request the IEEE 802.11 protocol stack to initiate the association procedures required for establishing the links .

The present invention is directed toward a mobility architecture where the application processor and the RAT networks are not in a same platform. This architecture split between a PC and an insertably removable wireless communication device introduces some complexity and imposes additional requirements on the mobility middleware. A mobility middleware architecture for such devices is introduced including a specific dual mode FDD WiMAX device as an example.

The modular design of the architecture enables the mobility middleware to support a growing number of different end user applications and RATs. For example if WiMAX is added in a device as a new RAT an interface to support WiMAX in the mobility enabler is added while the rest of the mobility middleware remains.

The mobility middleware sits on top of the transport stacks e.g. 3GPP global system for mobile communications GSM VVLAN long term evolution LTE and the like . There are generally two types of applications that interact with the mobility middleware . One type of application is an end user application e.g. voice over IP VoIP instant messaging and the like . Another type of application is the high layer protocols e.g. Mobile IP or SIP . The applications have coordinated control of the mobility and service middleware functions. For example the end user applications may use the service and mobility application programming interfaces APIs in a coordinated manner through an open API .

The mobility middleware does not sit in any specific protocol layer. Instead the mobility middleware provides interaction across layers and the interactions with the end user applications and transport stacks are performed through open APIs and respectively.

The mobility policy contains a set of functions that enable seamless mobility within heterogeneous networks and support multiple services including 1 a network detection function which allows a terminal to identify characteristics of surrounding networks 2 a network selection function which selects one of many access networks which is most suitable for a subscriber s demand based on characteristics such as QoS system operator user profile application requirements and the like 3 an inter network handover function which performs seamless handover from the previous network to the new selected network the purpose is to provide service continuity to the user the function interacts with others mobility functions such as Mobile IP 4 a parallel attach function which facilitates the device in connecting simultaneously to multiple RATs to satisfy a QoS application e.g. a voice call may be processed through cellular while a file transfer occurs through WLAN . The parallel attach function interacts with the handoff HO management and IP layer for context transfer 5 a measurement function which collects measurements received from the various RATs and provides input to the others mobility middleware functions e.g. network selection power management and the like 6 a multi access QoS function which ensures that the QoS requirements for an application is addressed by the selected network 7 a security function which processes the security operations necessary to provide a relevant security over a RAT and improve the inter network handover e.g. the security function can pre authenticate users to reduce handover delay and 8 a power control function which coordinates power control functions of each access technology to improve the battery life of the device.

It should be noted that the mobility policy functions do not replace existing mobility functions in each RAT. For example the inter network handover deals with issues related to multi access handover and it interacts with handover functions for each access technology.

The mobility enabler is a thin layer of functionalities that interface with different RATs. An open API is used to allow the mobility enabler to collect statistics from the RAT and to transmit commands to the RATs. It also consolidates and normalizes received information from the different RATs and provides a control information trigger interface to the mobility policy entity allowing control of the RATs.

The mobility enabler receives and processes measurements from the transport stacks see and forwards the processed information to the mobility policy entity . It can also send the commands and requests from the Mobility Policy entity to the end user applications see .

The mobility enabler provides a thin layer to isolate the mobility policy from any specific access networks thus making the design modular and easily extended to different RATs.

The service policy is an intelligent entity which handles service related issues and provides the policy for coordination of different applications supported by the service enabler .

In accordance with another embodiment shown in the present invention is directed to a terminal equipment architecture including an insertably removable wireless communication device which provides functions similar to those of the MT module and the WLAN chip shown in . The insertably removable wireless communication device may take the form of an FDD WiMAX PC card. The FDD WiMAX PC card enables the terminal equipment architecture to connect to a wireless network in order to use various applications such as web browsing email file transfer or the like.

The above mentioned insertably removable wireless communication device may support multiple radio access technologies RATs . The mobility middleware will allow seamless service continuity for users who are running applications from their portable computing devices such as PCs notebooks personal data assistants PDAs and the like.

In one embodiment of the present invention shown in mobility middleware resides only in terminal equipment . shows an insertably removable wireless communication device having a dual mode FDD WiMAX PC Card architecture in accordance with the present invention. Although only shows a UMTS module a WiMAX module and a communication module as being part of the insertably removable wireless communication device as an example of realization a converged insertably removable wireless communication device may support multiple different access technologies e.g. IEEE 802.15 digital video broadcasting handheld DVB H and the like .

The insertably removable wireless communication device provides a multiple radio transport medium to the applications in the terminal equipment . In only a UMTS and a WiMAX are shown as an example. The UMTS and the WiMAX consist of the protocol software and a modem. These components can be any standard compliant implementation. The applications in the terminal equipment are ignorant of the underlying various transport mechanisms. The applications normally send and receive data without any changes. The details about the transport are hidden by the mobility middleware . The mobility middleware provides a uniform and consistent interface to the applications in the terminal equipment . The mobility middleware determines which radio is to be made active and used for data transfer. The mobility middleware is completely implemented in the terminal equipment which enables it to support more features functionalities and policies due to availability of greater computing capability memory and power. The mobility middleware communicates with the protocol software components e.g. UMTS and WiMAX residing on the insertably removable wireless communication device over a USB link. The commands and response between the mobility middleware and the protocol software are carried over the USB link. The communication driver receives the USB traffic and then routes the mobility middleware commands and responses to and from the protocol software components.

The mobility middleware core module B provides a uniform and consistent interface to the applications in the terminal equipment . The mobility middleware core module B determines which radio is to be made active and used for data transfer. The mobility middleware communication module A supports sending and receiving of higher layer messages such as IP messages. The mobility middleware core module B is implemented in the insertably removable wireless communication device which enables the terminal equipment to access and react to link level events faster thus improving handover efficiency. The mobility middleware core module B communicates with the protocol software components e.g. UMTS and WiMAX residing on the insertably removable wireless communication device through API calls or by invoking AT commands. The commands and response between the mobility middleware communication device A and the protocol software are carried over the USB link. The communication driver receives the USB traffic and then routes the mobility middleware commands and responses to and from the protocol software components via the mobility middleware core module B.

As shown in the mobility middleware is implemented in the terminal equipment as two modules a mobility middleware communication module A and a mobility middleware core module B which is an extension to a network driver interface specification NDIS wide area network NDISWAN miniport driver . The end user applications in the terminal equipment may include voice over IP VoIP video and the like. The terminal equipment further includes a session initiation protocol SIP client an Internet protocol IP suite and a mobile IP MIP client . As previously described with reference to the mobility middleware A and B communicate via an API such as an IEEE 802.21 API.

The insertably removable wireless communication device includes a USIM a UMTS a WiMAX and a communication driver . The UMTS includes a 3GPP FDD NAS and a 3GPP FSS AS . The WiMAX includes an IEEE 802.16 protocol stack. As defined in 3GPP standards the USIM includes an authentication and key agreement AKA cellular security module and an extensible authentication protocol EAP AKA WLAN security module. The security modules exchange relevant security information with the mobility middleware core module B over a USB link. The NAS includes a GSM CC SM an ATC advanced technology attachment ATA and an IP relay.

Both of the NAS and the AS have a standard set of APIs. The mobility middleware communicates by calling the standard APIs. Besides standard API the mobility middleware uses AT commands to communicate with the NAS . The API call or AT commands are carried by a communication link e.g. USB link between terminal equipment and the insertably removable wireless communication device .

The WiMAX IEEE 802.16 protocol stack includes an IEEE 802.11 MAC layer an IEEE 802.11 PHY layer and a session management entity SME all of which interface with the mobility middleware B via standard API calls over a USB link.

The Mobility Middleware may set a specific RAT as a default when the terminal equipment is initialized. Then signal strength is continuously monitored by sending standard API commands. As the mobility middleware receives the measurement report it may optionally send the reports to the network or analyze it locally. Depending on the signal strength and handover algorithm defined the mobility middleware may prepare the other RAT for a potential handover. When the handover is imminent the other RAT is started and the session is transferred to the new link. The mobility middleware is responsible for initiation of all the signaling required to maintain the session. The mobility middleware may use API calls AT commands or any other defined interface to initiate the procedure. In this configuration the mobility middleware core module B resides in the terminal equipment . The mobility middleware core module B will have access to enhanced computing capability memory more power and the like. Thus the mobility middleware core module B can implement complex handover policy analysis of measurement reports locally on the client side thus enabling complex functions to be implemented and decisions to be made locally to improve the performance.

The mobility middleware core module B accepts network related commands and data from the terminal equipment . Thus the terminal equipment does not see any changes and uses a normal WAN interface to setup teardown a link and send receive data. The terminal equipment and the insertably removable wireless communication device are connected via a USB link. This USB link is managed by drivers in each of the terminal equipment and the insertably removable wireless communication device . The WAN commands from terminal equipment are carried over the USB link to the insertably removable wireless communication device and intercepted by the mobility middleware core module B. The mobility middleware core module B then determines how to distribute the commands and data. Besides that the mobility middleware core module B performs management functions such as monitoring of link status selecting a link and preparing it for future handoff and in case of actual handoff the mobility middleware core module B executes the handoff.

To continue a data session other high level protocols like MIP and SIP procedures need to be initiated by the mobility middleware communication module A in the terminal equipment . Upon receiving commands from the mobility middleware core module B the mobility middleware communication module A initiates such procedure. The mobility middleware communication module A interacts with high level protocols residing in the terminal equipment for providing efficient communication.

In the configuration of the mobility middleware core module resides on the MT side. It will have very fast access to link level activity. So it can react to such events and trigger actions quickly. Since the core module is implemented in the MT platform and interfaces with the TE using standard USB WAN interface the impact on PC side is less. It will be more portable and should be possible to connect and configure easily.

The mobility middleware core B performs the important tasks of network detection network selection or the like whereas the mobility middleware communication module A performs those functionalities that require message exchanges over IP and invoking an application program interface API on other control stacks. The mobility middleware core module B and the mobility middleware communication module A module exchange messages over a separate interface.

The mobility middleware core module B serves as the primary mobility middleware function whereby multiple services are supported by implementing the control function and IEEE 802.21 link event and services. One service that may be provided by the mobility middleware core module B includes network detection which allows a terminal to identify characteristics of surrounding networks.

Another service provided by the mobility middleware core module B is network selection. Within many access networks this service selects the network which is most suitable for a subscriber s demand based on characteristics such as QoS system operator user profile application requirements and the like.

Yet another service provided by the mobility middleware core module B includes inter network handover. This function performs seamless handover from the previous network to the new selected network. The purpose is to provide service continuity to the user. The function interacts with others mobility functions such as Mobile IP.

Yet another service provided by the mobility middleware core module B includes multi access QoS. This service insures that the QoS requirements for an application is addressed by the selected network.

Yet another service provided by the mobility middleware core module B includes a parallel attach service which initiates the simultaneous connection of multiple AT networks in order to satisfy QoS applications. For example a voice call can be processed through a cellular network while a file transfer occurs through a WLAN. The parallel attach service interacts with the handover management and an IP layer for context transfer.

Yet another service provided by the mobility middleware core module B includes power management. This service coordinates the power control capabilities of each access technology to improve the battery life of the device.

Yet another service provided by the mobility middleware core module B includes a measurement service. This service collects measurements received from the various AT and provides input the others mobility middleware functions e.g. network selection power management and the like.

Yet another service provided by the mobility middleware core module B includes security. This service processes the security operations necessary to provide a relevant security over AT and improve the Inter Network handover. For example it can pre authenticate users to reduce handover delay.

Yet another service provided by the mobility middleware core module B includes routing functionality. The mobility middleware core module B routes control messages and data among control applications in the terminal equipment and the communication protocol stacks in the WiMAX of the insertably removable wireless communication device .

The mobility middleware communication module A may provide MIH messaging. This function will accept MIH messages to be sent over IP to an MIH server from the mobility middleware core module B. The mobility middleware communication module A will then call proper API to send it over an IP stack available in the computing platform of the terminal equipment . On the other hand the mobility middleware communication module A should be able to receive MIH messages from an MIH server over IP and send the messages to the mobility middleware core module B.

The mobility middleware communication module A supports the mobility middleware core module B to interact with other control protocols. This function should provide services to the mobility middleware core module B such as invoking APIs on MIP SIP at the request of the mobility middleware core module B and the like. The mobility middleware communication module A may implement the logic to support an API call and complete the transaction.

The mobility middleware interacts with an IEEE 802.16 management entity to facilitate handover procedures. When a handover from FDD to IEEE 802.16 is imminent the mobility middleware can request the 802.16 management entity to start the association procedures to establish 802.16 links.

A direct mapping between the IEEE 802.21 primitives information events commands and some NAS SM and GMM primitives already exist. There is no change required on SM and GMM for the mobility middleware to work with FDD NAS.

Similar to the FDD NAS the above mapping is provided between the IEEE 802.21 primitives and the FDD RRC primitives. There is no change required on RRC for the mobility middleware to work with FDD AS.

The interaction of the mobility middleware with Mobile IP is in two aspects. One aspect is that IEEE 802.21 can trigger a Mobile IP to speed up handovers. For example when an 802.21 MIH link down event occurs the mobility middleware can forward the event trigger to the mobile IP client in the mobile terminal thus triggering the mobile terminal to register with the foreign agent obtain care of address and send a binding update . This may reduce delay in the mobile IP handover procedures.

Another aspect is that there is on going IETF mobile IP standardization activity to support transport of IEEE 802.21 messages information events commands between the terminal and network over IP. This method utilizes mobile IP as a vehicle to convey IEEE 802.21 messages between the mobile terminal and the network side thus minimizing the requirement of changes to existing functions on both sides.

The mobility middleware interacts with applications and service enabling protocols such as SIP. For example an application may have certain QoS requirements. Mobility shimware will be able to map the QoS requirement to the most suitable network. The mobility shimware interacts with existing security functions in the mobile terminal to address security issues during handover. No changes in current security functions are expected.

The mobility middleware communication module A interacts with IP protocol stack to send and receive MIH messages over IP. A message exchange interface is established between the mobility middleware core module B and the mobility middleware communication module A. The mobility middleware core module B sends a request to the mobility middleware communication module A to send MIH messages over IP to an MIH server. The mobility middleware communication module A sends the IP messages and waits for a response. After the mobility middleware communication module A receives a response back from the MIH server the response is forwarded to the mobility middleware core module B.

The mobility middleware communication module A interacts with MIP and SIP stacks. The mobility middleware core module B may send a request on the message exchange interface to the mobility middleware communication module A to initiate MIP or SIP interaction or the mobility middleware communication module A may independently initiate MIP or SIP interaction.

The present invention may be implemented in any type of wireless communication system as desired. By way of example the present invention may be implemented in any type of IEEE 802 type system WiMAX LTE or any other type of wireless communication system. The present invention may also be implemented as a multi layer application in software or on an integrated circuit such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC multiple integrated circuits logical programmable gate array LPGA multiple LPGAs discrete components or a combination of integrated circuit s LPGA s and discrete component s . The present invention applies to future system architecture middleware and applications.

The present invention may be implemented in a WTRU and is applicable to wideband code division multiple access WCDMA time division duplex TDD high chip rate low chip rate time division synchronous code division multiple access TDS CDMA and FDD air interfaces. The present invention is also applicable to long term evolution LTE which is the next generation of UMTS technology.

Although the features and elements of the present invention are described in the preferred embodiments in particular combinations each feature or element can be used alone without the other features and elements of the preferred embodiments or in various combinations with or without other features and elements of the present invention. The methods or flow charts provided in the present invention may be implemented in a computer program software or firmware tangibly embodied in a computer readable storage medium for execution by a general purpose computer or a processor. Examples of computer readable storage mediums include a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a register cache memory semiconductor memory devices magnetic media such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical media and optical media such as CD ROM disks and digital versatile disks DVDs .

Suitable processors include by way of example a general purpose processor a special purpose processor a conventional processor a digital signal processor DSP a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in association with a DSP core a controller a microcontroller Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs circuits any other type of integrated circuit IC and or a state machine.

A processor in association with software may be used to implement a radio frequency transceiver for use in a wireless transmit receive unit WTRU user equipment terminal base station radio network controller or any host computer. The WTRU may be used in conjunction with modules implemented in hardware and or software such as a camera a video camera module a videophone a speakerphone a vibration device a speaker a microphone a television transceiver a hands free headset a keyboard a Bluetooth module a frequency modulated FM radio unit a liquid crystal display LCD display unit an organic light emitting diode OLED display unit a digital music player a media player a video game player module an Internet browser and or any wireless local area network WLAN module.

