---

title: Smart radio-frequency identification (RFID) infrastructure and method
abstract: The present invention provides a smart RFID infrastructure and method. Specifically, under the present invention, the infrastructure includes a set (e.g., one or more) of smart RFID tags adapted to communicate with one another, wherein each operating smart RFID tag is adapted to create an individual table of information pertaining to operation of other smart RFID tags. In addition, the infrastructure includes a set of writeable RFID tags adapted to communicate with and receive the individual table of information from each operating smart RFID tag, wherein each of the set of writeable RFID tags is further adapted to create a master table of information based on the individual table of information received from each operating smart RFID tag.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07659821&OS=07659821&RS=07659821
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07659821
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060914
---
This Application is related in some aspects to commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 856 684 entitled Wireless Sensor Network filed May 28 2004 and hereby incorporated by reference. This Application is also related in some aspects to commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 946 714 entitled Method System and Program Product for Copying Data Between Nodes of a Wireless Sensor Network filed Sep. 22 2004 and also incorporated by reference.

In general the present invention relates to RFID technology. Specifically the present invention relates to a smart RFID infrastructure and method.

As Radio Frequency Identification RFID technology has become more pervasive the reliance on RFID technology has grown. Today every thing from security passes in electronically controlled doors to inventory management of products can be controlled via RFID technology. Current RFID technology comes in two forms one utilizes active technology and the other passive technology. In the active RFID system a beacon radio signal is transmitted periodically with a built in battery. In the passive system the power source must be induced with a reader signal to transmit RFID tag data to a reader. Both forms utilize wireless technology that transmits data to a reader portable or stationary . Unfortunately current passive RFID systems do not communicate with each other. Instead they rely on an external source to initiate a RF inductive coupling energy into a small capacitor on the passive tag that transmits back a preprogrammed binary code that is unique for every passive and active tag.

Therefore relying on an external reader does not provide a highly effective percent read especially when these tags are placed among products such as palettes of liquid i.e. due to RF absorption . That is limited read ranges and interference with radio signals caused by metals and liquids have presented barriers to accurately read all RFID tags.

In view of the foregoing there exists a need for a solution that solves at least one of the problems in the related art.

In general the present invention provides a smart Radio Frequency Identification RFID infrastructure and method. Specifically under the present invention the infrastructure includes a set of smart RFID tags adapted to communicate with one another wherein each operating smart RFID tag is adapted to create an individual table of information pertaining to operation of other smart RFID tags. In addition the infrastructure includes a set of writeable RFID tags adapted to communicate with and receive the individual table of information from each operating smart RFID tag wherein each of the set of writeable RFID tags is further adapted to create a master table of information based on the individual table of information received from each operating smart RFID tag.

In another embodiment a RFID infrastructure is provided that comprises a set of RFID tags positioned about a set of adjacent objects and a set of writeable RFID tags positioned in proximity to the set of RFID tags wherein each of the set of writeable RFID tags are adapted to communicate with the set of RFID tags and create a master table of information pertaining to operation of the set of RFID tags.

According to a first aspect of the present invention a smart Radio Frequency Identification RFID infrastructure is provided that comprises a set of smart RFID tags adapted to communicate with one another wherein each operating smart RFID tag is adapted to create an individual table of information pertaining to operation of other smart RFID tags and a set of writeable RFID tags adapted to communicate with and receive the individual table of information from each operating smart RFID tag wherein each of the set of writeable RFID tags is further adapted to create a master table of information based on the individual table of information received from each operating smart RFID tag.

According to a second aspect of the present invention a smart Radio Frequency Identification RFID method is provided that comprises providing a set of smart RFID tags adapted to communicate with one another wherein each operating smart RFID tag is adapted to create an individual table of information pertaining to operation of other smart RFID tags and providing a set of writeable RFID tags adapted to communicate with and receive the individual table of information from each operating smart RFID tag wherein each of the set of writeable RFID tags is further adapted to create a master table of information based on the individual table of information received from each operating smart RFID tag.

According to a third aspect of the present invention a smart Radio Frequency Identification RFID method comprising a set of smart RFID tags positioned about a set of adjacent objects communicating with one another to determine a functionality of each of the set of RFID tags each operating one of the set of RFID tags creating an individual table of information pertaining to the set of RFID tags a writeable RFID tag communicating with the set of RFID tags and receiving the individual table of information from each of the operating one of the set of RFID tags and the writeable RFID tag creating a master table of information based on the individual table of information received from each of the operating smart RFID tags.

According to a fourth aspect of the present invention a Radio Frequency Identification RFID infrastructure is provided that comprises a set of RFID tags positioned about a set of adjacent objects and a set of writeable RFID tags positioned in proximity to the set of RFID tags wherein each of the set of writeable RFID tags are adapted to communicate with the set of RFID tags and create a master table of information pertaining to operation of the set of RFID tags.

According to a fifth aspect of the present invention a Radio Frequency Identification RFID method is provided that comprises positioning a set of RFID tags about a set of adjacent objects and strategically positioning a set of writeable RFID tags in proximity to the set of RFID tags and each of the set of writeable RFID tags communicating with the set of RFID tags and creating a master table of information pertaining to operation of the set of RFID tags.

According to a sixth aspect of the present invention a method for deploying a smart Radio Frequency Identification RFID infrastructure is provided that comprises providing a set of smart RFID tags adapted to communicate with one another wherein each operating smart RFID tag is adapted to create an individual table of information pertaining to operation of other smart RFID tags and providing a set of writeable RFID tags adapted to communicate with and receive the individual table of information from each operating smart RFID tag wherein each of the set of writeable RFID tags is further adapted to create a master table of information based on the individual table of information received from each operating smart RFID tag.

According to a seventh aspect of the present invention a method for deploying smart Radio Frequency Identification RFID infrastructure is provided that comprises positioning a set of RFID tags about a set of adjacent objects and strategically positioning a set of writeable RFID tags in proximity to the set of RFID tags and each of the set of writeable RFID tags communicating with the set of RFID tags and creating a master table of information pertaining to operation of the set of RFID tags.

As indicated above the present invention provides a smart RFID infrastructure and method. Specifically under the present invention the infrastructure includes a set i.e. one or more of smart RFID tags adapted to communicate with one another wherein each operating smart RFID tag is adapted to create an individual table of information pertaining to operation of other smart RFID tags. In addition the infrastructure includes a set of writeable RFID tags adapted to communicate with and receive the individual table of information from each operating smart RFID tag wherein each of the set of writeable RFID tags is further adapted to create a master table of information based on the individual table of information received from each operating smart RFID tag.

In another embodiment a RFID infrastructure is provided that comprises a set of RFID tags positioned about a set of adjacent objects and a set of writeable RFID tags positioned in proximity to the set of RFID tags wherein each of the set of writeable RFID tags are adapted to communicate with the set of RFID tags and create a master table of information pertaining to operation of the set of RFID tags.

Referring now to a typical arrangement of RFID components is shown. As depicted an RFID tag having an insert such as an RFID chip can be positioned on an asset e.g. a product . RFID tag can communicate via an antenna with an interrogator or RFID reader that is equipped with firmware software and is connected to power supply . RFID Reader will communicate with a host server via an application programming interface API . Application software loaded on server allows a management information system MIS to access server and application software .

Referring now to an RFID infrastructure according to the related art is shown. As depicted objects are fitted with passive RFID tags. In this illustrative embodiment objects are containers of liquid packaged adjacent to one another on a palette or the like. In any event RFID reader will attempt to detect the RFID tags and communicate the results to server which itself can communicate with enterprises servers or enterprise environment .

A problem with infrastructure is shown in where the RFID tags attached to items and cannot be detected by RFID reader even though they may be functional. This could be caused for a variety of reasons. One such reason is the absorption of the RF signal from the RFID tags caused by the liquid in the objects containers . When this occurs it appears to RFID reader as if objects and did not even exist in the environment. As such server will only report to enterprise that objects and have been detected while objects and are never reported.

The present invention addresses issues such as this with a smart RFID infrastructure hereinafter infrastructure such as that shown in . Specifically under infrastructure smart passive RFID tags hereinafter tags are attached positioned on objects . In general tags integrate a passive RFID tag with smart technology with the capability to discover neighboring tags and keep a local individual table of information pertaining to operation of the other RFID tags . Each operational functioning RFID tag ensures that it has recorded all neighboring tags by crosschecking the individual tables of information maintained by other tags . In general tags are first activated using a low RF frequency transmitted by RFID reader . Thereafter a standard high RF frequency is used for communication among RFID tags . It should be appreciated that although six objects and tags are depicted this for illustrative purposes only and that the teachings recited herein could be carried out with any quantity of objects and or tags .

In any event also shown in is a set e.g. one or more of writeable master smart RFID tags that are positioned about objects and RFID tags two are shown for illustrative purposes . Each writeable RFID tag is adapted to communicate with and receive the individual table of information from each operating functioning RFID tag . Each writeable RFID tag is further adapted to create a master table of information based on the individual table s of information received from each operating RFID tag .

It should be understood that RFID tags and writeable RFID tags have a pre active algorithm built in to perform the discovery and recording of its neighbors and other RFID tags around the environment e.g. using the concepts described in the above incorporated patent applications . Since a lower RF frequency is used to power these RFID tags and writeable RFID tags the power will enable them to have a microprocessor that has a memory ROM capable of storing information. The power will be sufficient to power a low power arm processor type or any other low power processors. Writeable RFID tags comprise at least twice the size of the current RFID memory ROMs which have the capability to receive data. Each writeable RFID tag has built in reader capabilities that are enabled using a small microprocessor and memory ROM to inquire and obtain information of the RFID tags that are on or around objects . In a typical embodiment objects are products such as containers of liquid packaged on a pallet or the like. As such writeable RFID tags could be mounted on the pallet or after the items on the pallet are packaged shrink wrapped on the side thereof. In order to supply power to the writeable RFID tags and the RFID tags lower RF signal will be propagated in the same environment to initiate power on these devices. Since the power is provided from the lower frequency each microprocessor has the ability to perform recording to the memory ROM of the various smart RFID tags and that are in the environment. The present invention can also integrate existing passive RFID tags with active writeable tags so that writeable RFID tags can record all RFID tags that it has scanned in the environment. In return writeable RFID tags tags will then interface with the RFID reader and return the total number of RFID tags it has read.

Each writeable RFID tag typically has a microprocessor that will write to a local memory ROM of the various RFID tags that it has found either by itself or by comparing the individual tables of information of the various neighboring RFID tags . Each writeable RFID tag can communicate via RF e.g. either 900 Mhz or radio bands that are in the ISM standard with RFID tags via RF signals and can share a common communication protocol that is universally understood. In addition each writeable RFID tag could have a time period to query the various RFID tags that are placed on objects and obtain match the individual tables of information to ensure that all information is similar.

Referring now to these concepts are shown in greater detail in an illustrative example. In this example RFID tags will be specifically referred to by the reference numerals shown on objects e.g. . In step of the example smart RFID tag discovers neighboring tags and and updates its individual table of information by recording their identifications and other operation information. Smart RFID tags and also update their own individual tables of information to include smart RFID tag .

Shown below is an illustrative table of information for smart RFID tag Table of information for smart RFID tag 

Shown below are illustrative tables of information for smart RFID tag before and after communication with smart RFID tag 

As can be seen after communicating with smart RFID tag the table of information for smart RFID tag has been updated based on the information contained in the table for smart RFID tag .

Referring now to the example is continued. In step smart RFID tag or any other smart RFID tag no particular order discovers smart RFID tags and . It updates its table of information recording their identifications and other operation information in its own local database. Smart RFID tags and also update their tables of information to include smart RFID tag .

Shown below are illustrative tables of information for smart RFID tag before and after communication with smart RFID tag 

As can be seen after communicating with smart RFID tag the table of information for smart RFID tag has been updated based on the information contained in the table for smart RFID tag .

The example is continued in . Specifically in step each smart RFID tag will periodically query its neighbors and cross check on their tables of information to make sure that they themselves locally have all the smart RFID tags in the environment noted in their table. Specifically for smart RFID tag based on step it currently has the following information in the database 

After querying smart RFID tag again on its next inquiry it notes that there is a variation in data and starts updating its own table of information with the missing values 

Similarly smart RFID tag and all other smart RFID tags will periodically query its neighbors and eventually update their tables and have the total number of smart RFID tags in the environment.

Referring now to the process continues in step in which each writeable RFID tag will periodically query each smart RFID tag in the environment and receive their individual tables of information. Each writeable RFID Tag will then compose its own master table of information based on the various individual tables of information received from smart RFID tags .

Based on the information above it will verify and cross match the two or more databases and compose the final or master table of information database information of smart RFID tags as follows 

This information will be transmitted to RFID reader and then to local server which can then communicate the same to one or more enterprise servers within enterprise . IN the event that multiple master tables are received i.e. there are multiple writeable RFID tags RFID reader local server and or enterprise servers could be adapted to combine the multiple master tables into a single master table.

Referring now to another embodiment of the present invention is depicted. Specifically depicts a RFID infrastructure in which standard passive RFID tags labeled are attached to positioned on objects e.g. liquid containers on a pallet . In addition a set of smart passive writeable RFID tags labeled A B C etc. are strategically positioned around the RFID tags . Specifically writeable RFID tags are positioned so as to be able to communicate with their assigned RFID tags . In this embodiment RFID tags are activated or powered using low RF frequency e.g. transmitted by low RF frequency generator or RFID reader . However RFID tags are not smart in that they do not communicate with one another or create individual tables of information. However writeable RFID tags will periodically query the RFID tags in the same manner as described above to determine which RFID tags are operational. Along these lines writeable RFID tags can similarly maintain master tables of information. This information will then be communicated to RFID reader and then to server . As indicated above when multiple master tables are present they can be combined into a single master table. In any event as show in as the pallet of objects moves RFID reader is capable of transmitting the low frequency RF signal to power RFID tags and writeable RFID tags .

The foregoing description of various aspects of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the invention as defined by the accompanying claims. For example it should be understood that either of the embodiments shown in could incorporate any of the teachings of .

