---

title: Determining mobile content for a social network based on location and time
abstract: A device, system, and method are directed towards updating location information for a social network. A request for the location information associated with a GPS coordinate is received from a client device associated with a member of the social network. In response to the request, a location name associated with another member of the social network is provided to the client device based on the GPS coordinate. Another location name may be received from the client device. The other location name may be associated with the GPS coordinate and with the member in the social network. Thus, the GPS coordinate and/or member may be associated with a plurality of location names. A location description may also be received and associated with the location name and with the member in the social network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07917154&OS=07917154&RS=07917154
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 07917154
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061101
---
The present invention relates generally to mobile communications and more particularly but not exclusively to providing geographical location description to a mobile client based in part on a social network.

Tremendous changes have been occurring in the Internet that influence our everyday lives. For example online social networks have become the new meeting grounds. They have been called the new power lunch tables and new golf courses for business life in the U.S. Moreover many people are using such online social networks to reconnect themselves to their friends their neighborhood their community and to otherwise stay in touch.

The development of such online social networks touch countless aspects of our everyday lives providing instant access to people of similar mindsets enabling us to form partnerships with more people in more ways than ever before and providing relevant information to people within our social networks.

Global Positioning System GPS technology has improved our ability to detect precise geographical locations. GPS integration into mobile devices enables mobile detection of these locations. However while GPS technology may provide accurate coordinates they do not always provide accurate names for the coordinates or provide relevant information about the locations. In particular location data can be inaccurate especially down to the street address level. Thus it is with respect to these considerations and others that the present invention has been made.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which show by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Among other things the present invention may be embodied as methods or devices. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

Throughout the specification and claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The phrase in one embodiment as used herein does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment though it may. Furthermore the phrase in another embodiment as used herein does not necessarily refer to a different embodiment although it may. Thus as described below various embodiments of the invention may be readily combined without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

In addition as used herein the term or is an inclusive or operator and is equivalent to the term and or unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The term based on is not exclusive and allows for being based on additional factors not described unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. In addition throughout the specification the meaning of a an and the include plural references. The meaning of in includes in and on. 

As used herein the term social network refers to a concept that an individual s personal network of friends family colleagues coworkers and the subsequent connections within those networks can be utilized to find more relevant connections for a variety of activities including but not limited to dating job networking service referrals activity partners or the like.

A social network typically comprises a person s set of direct and or indirect personal relationships. Direct personal relationships usually include relationships with family members friends colleagues coworkers and other people with which the person has had some form of direct contact such as contact in person by telephone by email by instant message by letter or the like. These direct personal relationships are sometimes referred to as first degree relationships. First degree relationships can have varying degrees of closeness trust and other characteristics.

Indirect personal relationships typically include relationships through first degree relationships to people with whom a person has not had some form of direct contact. For example a friend of a friend represents an indirect personal relationship. A more extended indirect relationship might be a friend of a friend of a friend. These indirect relationships are sometimes characterized by a degree of separation between the people. For instance a friend of a friend can be characterized as two degrees of separation or a second degree relationship. Similarly a friend of a friend of a friend can be characterized as three degrees of separation or a third degree relationship.

As used herein the term GPS coordinate refers to any value based on a geographical coordinate system provided by a satellite based radio positioning systems that provide physical positions velocity and or time information. The NAVSTAR system operated by the U.S. Department of Defense is an example of such a system. A GPS coordinate may include a longitude value a latitude value and or an altitude value e.g. referenced to a mean sea level . Geographical coordinate systems may express GPS coordinates in for example degree minutes degree minutes seconds decimal degrees or the like.

As used herein the term geographical coordinate refers to any value based on a geographical coordinate system provided by lookup mechanism triangulation mechanism or by any other location identification system. Lookup mechanisms include IP address to geographical location mappings MAC address to geographical location mappings or the like. Triangulation mechanisms include WiFi triangulation or any other wireless and or radio triangulation.

As used herein the term location name refers to any information identifying a geographical location. One or more location names may be associated with a GPS coordinate or a range or GPS coordinates. The term location description refers to any information about a geographical location including a tag comment remark or rating about the geographical location a time relevant to the geographical location or the like. One or more location descriptions may be associated with a location name. The term location information refers to a location name location description or any other information associated with a location. Location information a location name and a location description may be any data including a word a set or words a photograph a sound bite video footage or the like.

As used herein the term within a proximity to refers to two locations being near each other wherein a measure of nearness may be a relatively small distance based on the scale of the measurement. Thus for a large scale such as for distances between cities the measure of nearness may be larger but for a street level or the like the measure may be smaller. The measure of nearness may be determined by any geometric measure including a direct line between the locations a Manhattan distance between the locations or even determined by a user or the like. In another embodiment a proximity to is a predetermined value based on a scaling display value.

As used herein the term point refers to a representation of a geographical location in a text graphical audio or any other media object.

As used herein the term relevancy score refers to information that represents whether a location name is a relevant name or a commonly used name for a GPS coordinate with respect to a member and or a community of a social network.

Briefly stated the present invention is directed towards updating location information for the social network and or to providing the location information from the social network. A request for the location information associated with a GPS coordinate is received from a client device associated with a member of the social network. In response to the request a location name associated with another member of the social network is provided to the client device based on the GPS coordinate. Another location name may be received from the client device. The other location name may be associated with the GPS coordinate and with the member in the social network. Thus the GPS coordinate and or member may be associated with a plurality of location names. A location description may also be received and associated with the location name and with the member in the social network.

A GPS coordinate and a search criterion are received from a client device associated with a member of the social network. The social network is searched for another member associated with a location name based on the GPS coordinate and the search criterion. The location name may be a sponsored advertisement. The location name is provided to the client device. A communication may be enabled between the member and the other member.

Moreover a start location and end location may also be received. The GPS coordinate and or search criterion may be associated with either the start location or the end location. The searched location name is used to determine a location of interest. A route is determined between the start location and the end location and through the location of interest. The route is provided to the client device.

Although some methods system apparatuses user interfaces and data models of some embodiments of the present invention are described below as operating on GPS coordinates in an alternate embodiment these methods system apparatuses use interfaces and data models can be modified to operate substantially similarly on any other mechanism employable to obtain geographical coordinates without departing from the scope of the invention.

One embodiment of mobile devices is described in more detail below in conjunction with . Generally however mobile devices may include virtually any portable computing device capable of receiving and sending a message over a network such as network wireless network or the like. Mobile devices may also be described generally as client devices that are configured to be portable. Thus mobile devices may include virtually any portable computing device capable of connecting to another computing device and receiving information. Such devices include portable devices such as cellular telephones smart phones display pagers radio frequency RF devices infrared IR devices Personal Digital Assistants PDAs handheld computers laptop computers wearable computers tablet computers integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices and the like. As such mobile devices typically range widely in terms of capabilities and features. For example a cell phone may have a numeric keypad and a few lines of monochrome LCD display on which only text may be displayed. In another example a web enabled mobile device may have a touch sensitive screen a stylus and several lines of color LCD display in which both text and graphics may be displayed.

A web enabled mobile device may include a browser application that is configured to receive and to send web pages web based messages and the like. The browser application may be configured to receive and display graphics text multimedia and the like employing virtually any web based language including a wireless application protocol messages WAP and the like. In one embodiment the browser application is enabled to employ Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML HyperText Markup Language HTML eXtensible Markup Language XML and the like to display and send a message.

Mobile devices also may include at least one other client application that is configured to receive content from another computing device. The client application may include a capability to provide and receive textual content multimedia information and the like. The client application may further provide information that identifies itself including a type capability name and the like. In one embodiment mobile devices may uniquely identify themselves through any of a variety of mechanisms including a phone number Mobile Identification Number MIN an electronic serial number ESN or other mobile device identifier. The information may also indicate a content format that the mobile device is enabled to employ. Such information may be provided in a message or the like sent to GSS client device or other computing devices.

Mobile devices may also be configured to communicate a message such as through Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Message Service MMS instant messaging IM internet relay chat IRC Mardam Bey s IRC mIRC Jabber and the like between another computing device such as GSS client device or the like. However the present invention is not limited to these message protocols and virtually any other message protocol may be employed.

Mobile devices may be further configured to enable a user to participate in communications sessions such as IM sessions. As such mobile devices may include a client application that is configured to manage various actions on behalf of the client device. For example the client application may enable a user to interact with the browser application email application IM applications SMS application and the like.

Mobile devices may further be configured to include a client application that enables the end user to log into an end user account that may be managed by another computing device such as GSS . Such end user account for example may be configured to enable the end user to receive emails send receive IM messages SMS messages access selected web pages participate in a social networking activity or the like. Participation in various social networking activities may also be performed with or without logging into the end user account.

Mobile devices may also communicate with non mobile client devices such as client device or the like. In one embodiment such communications may include participation in social networking activities including sharing of multimedia information sharing location information or the like.

Client device may include virtually any computing device capable of communicating over a network to send and receive information including social networking information or the like. The set of such devices may include devices that typically connect using a wired or wireless communications medium such as personal computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs or the like. Client device may be configured to perform at least some of the same operations as mobile devices .

In addition client devices may include another application that is configured to search for location information based on a social network and or a GPS coordinate s . Client devices may receive the GPS coordinate and or search criteria from a user of client devices . Client devices may enable the user to enter the GPS coordinate and or search criteria with for example display of . Client devices may send the GPS coordinate and or search criteria to GSS over networks for further processing. Client devices may display the search results for locations at or near GPS coordinate using for example display of and display of . Client devices may also enable the user to update and or refine location description e.g. location name tag GPS coordinate time associated with the location in the social network using for example display of . Client devices may send the updated location description to GSS over network for further processing.

Client devices may retrieve the GPS coordinate s directly through a GPS interface on the client devices or through a communication with another device such as GPS source . For example client device mobile device may have an integrated GPS interface for retrieving GPS coordinate s . Client device mobile device may be a Nokia N95 handset with integrated GPS functionality. As shown client device mobile device has a GPS interface configured to communicate with external GPS source .

GPS source may include virtually any computing device capable of receiving a GPS coordinate wirelessly over a network or the like. GPS source may receive the GPS coordinate from one or more GPS enabled satellites. As shown mobile device is in communication with GPS source . The communication may include a wireless communication such as Bluetooth WiFi IR or the like. In one embodiment GPS source may be physically coupled to mobile device via a USB port serial port or the like. In any case the GPS coordinate is sent from GPS source to mobile device for further processing.

Wireless network is configured to couple mobile devices and its components with network . Wireless network may include any of a variety of wireless sub networks that may further overlay stand alone ad hoc networks and the like to provide an infrastructure oriented connection for mobile devices . Such sub networks may include mesh networks Wireless LAN WLAN networks cellular networks and the like.

Wireless network may further include an autonomous system of terminals gateways routers and the like connected by wireless radio links and the like. These connectors may be configured to move freely and randomly and organize themselves arbitrarily such that the topology of Wireless network may change rapidly.

Wireless network may further employ a plurality of access technologies including 2nd 2G 3rd 3G generation radio access for cellular systems WLAN Wireless Router WR mesh and the like. Access technologies such as 2G 3G and future access networks may enable wide area coverage for mobile devices such as mobile devices with various degrees of mobility. For example Wireless network may enable a radio connection through a radio network access such as Global System for Mobile communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA and the like. In essence Wireless network may include virtually any wireless communication mechanism by which information may travel between mobile device s and another computing device network and the like.

Network is configured to couple at least some components of system with each other including GSS GLT server rating and review server messenger server and sponsored search ad server client device and through Wireless network to mobile devices . Network is enabled to employ any form of computer readable media for communicating information from one electronic device to another. Also Network can include the Internet in addition to local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs direct connections such as through a universal serial bus USB port other forms of computer readable media or any combination thereof. On an interconnected set of LANs including those based on differing architectures and protocols a router acts as a link between LANs enabling messages to be sent from one to another. Also communication links within LANs typically include twisted wire pair or coaxial cable while communication links between networks may utilize analog telephone lines full or fractional dedicated digital lines including T1 T2 T3 and T4 Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDNs Digital Subscriber Lines DSLs wireless links including satellite links or other communications links known to those skilled in the art. Furthermore remote computers and other related electronic devices could be remotely connected to either LANs or WANs via a modem and temporary telephone link. In essence Network includes any communication method by which information may travel between GSS client devices and other computing devices.

Additionally communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave data signal or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The terms modulated data signal and carrier wave signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information instructions data and the like in the signal. By way of example communication media includes wired media such as twisted pair coaxial cable fiber optics wave guides and other wired media and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Devices that may operate as GSS GLT server rating and review server messenger server and sponsored search ad server include personal computers desktop computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs servers and the like. GSS GLT server rating and review server messenger server and sponsored search ad server may use signal flows and of respectively to perform at least some their operations.

One embodiment of GSS is described in more detail below in conjunction with . Briefly however GSS may include any computing device capable of connecting to Network to enable users of client devices to search for location information based on a social network GPS coordinate s and or search criteria. GSS may provide the location description as search result s e.g. maps lists routes associated with the GPS coordinate s sponsored advertisements associated with the GPS coordinate s or the like.

Additionally GSS may also enable users of client devices to enter update the location description. GSS may also manage the social network. In one embodiment GLT server may enable the members to define their communities e.g. by adding members to the community by defining a maximum size of the community a maximum degree of separation between members of the community or the like .

Moreover GSS may use services provided by GLT server rating and review server messenger server and or sponsored search ad server to perform at least some of its operations. For example GSS may request a rating review of a location from rating and review server . GSS may enable a communication between members of the social network by routing communications through messenger server . GSS may receive sponsored advertisements for a GPS coordinate from sponsored search ad server .

GSS may also identify the geographical location of each one of client devices via GPS coordinates sent from client devices IP addresses MAC addresses or the like of client devices or a user entered geographical location. GSS may use the geographical location s to determine whether two or more of client devices are within a proximity to each other. Devices determined to be within a proximity to each other are enabled to communicate with each other via messenger server or the like. GSS may use at least some steps of processes and of and respectively to perform at least some its operations.

GLT server is configured to associate a GPS coordinate s with location information. In one embodiment GLT server may enable members of a social network to search retrieve and update enter location information. In one embodiment GLT server may associate the location information with the GPS coordinate s and with the members in a social network data structure in a database or the like. One example of a social network data structure managed by GLT server is social network of . One example of a table in a database of location information is table of . In one embodiment the database may be a default database used to provide location information if information is not found in the social network. In one embodiment GLT may also manage at least some of the associations between location names and location information in the social network database or the like. GLT server may also enable GSS to search retrieve and update enter location information.

Rating and review server is configured to manage rating and or reviews associated with a geographical location. Rating and review server may enable GSS to send a rating review for the geographical location to update the rating review over network or the like. Rating and review server may enable GSS to send a request to retrieve the rating review for the geographical location.

Messenger server is configured to relay messages between two or more of client devices . Messenger server may relay IM SMS email and or VOIP messages or otherwise enable a communication between two or more of client devices . In one embodiment messenger serve may forward a message between the two or more of client devices . In one embodiment messenger server may enable an initiation of the communication and subsequently client devices may communicate messages directly with each other. For example messenger server may send phone numbers of two or more of client device to client device to enable the users of client devices to call each other. Messenger server may use at least some steps of process of to perform at least some its operations.

Sponsored search ad server is configured to receive payment from a sponsor for enabling storing searching and providing of sponsored search results. The sponsored search results may location information. In one embodiment the sponsor may be a member of the social network. Sponsored search ad server may be configured to associate one or more key words with a search result geographical location GPS location location name or the like. Sponsored search ad server may manage user accounts of sponsors track the effectiveness of the sponsored search results or the like. Sponsored search ad server may also be configured to provide to GSS over network the sponsored search results ads in response to the one or more keywords. For example in one embodiment the key words may be part of a search criteria submitted by a user of one of client devices . GSS may search for the key words through the user s social network or may request sponsored search ad server over network to return a sponsored search result ad associated with the keywords. A plurality of search results provided to one of client devices may be a combination of the sponsored search results and other search results. Sponsored search ad server may use at least some steps of processes of to perform at least some its operations.

Although illustrates GSS GLT server rating and review server messenger server and sponsored search ad server as separate devices the invention is not so limited. For example functions of some or all of these servers may be combined into a single component or a plurality of components included in a single computing device without departing from the scope of the present invention. Accordingly GSS GLT server rating and review server messenger server and sponsored search ad server may describe components e.g. a GSS component a GLT component a rating and review component or the like of a device.

Similarly although GSS is shown as a single computing device the invention is not so limited. For example one or more functions of GSS may be distributed across one or more distinct computing devices. For example managing various social networking activities including adding members to a social network sharing of information with members of the social network managing Instant Messaging IM session SMS messages email messages sharing of contact information aggregating and or storing of social networking information or the like may be performed by a plurality of computing devices without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention.

Client device also includes a power supply one or more network interfaces an audio interface a display a keypad an illuminator an input output interface a haptic interface and a global positioning systems GPS interface . Power supply provides power to client device . A rechargeable or non rechargeable battery may be used to provide power. The power may also be provided by an external power source such as an AC adapter or a powered docking cradle that supplements and or recharges a battery.

Client device may optionally communicate with a base station not shown or directly with another computing device. Network interface includes circuitry for coupling client device to one or more networks and is constructed for use with one or more communication protocols and technologies including but not limited to global system for mobile communication GSM code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA user datagram protocol UDP transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP SMS general packet radio service GPRS WAP ultra wide band UWB IEEE 802.16 Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax SIP RTP and the like.

Audio interface is arranged to produce and receive audio signals such as the sound of a human voice music or the like. For example audio interface may be coupled to a speaker and microphone not shown to enable telecommunication with others and or generate an audio acknowledgement for some action. Display may be a liquid crystal display LCD gas plasma light emitting diode LED or any other type of display used with a computing device. Display may also include a touch sensitive screen arranged to receive input from an object such as a stylus or a digit from a human hand.

Client device may further include additional mass storage facilities such as CD ROM DVD ROM drive and hard disk drive . Hard disk drive is utilized by client device to store among other things application programs databases and the like. Additionally CD ROM DVD ROM drive and hard disk drive may store cookies data images or the like.

Keypad may comprise any input device arranged to receive input from a user e.g. a sender . For example keypad may include a push button numeric dial or a keyboard. Keypad may also include command buttons that are associated with selecting and sending images. Illuminator may provide a status indication and or provide light. Illuminator may remain active for specific periods of time or in response to events. For example when illuminator is active it may backlight the buttons on keypad and stay on while the client device is powered. Also illuminator may backlight these buttons in various patterns when particular actions are performed such as dialing another client device. Illuminator may also cause light sources positioned within a transparent or translucent case of the client device to illuminate in response to actions.

Client device also comprises input output interface for communicating with external devices such as a headset or other input or output devices not shown in . Input output interface can utilize one or more communication technologies such as USB infrared Bluetooth and the like. Haptic interface is arranged to provide tactile feedback to a user e.g. a sender of the client device. For example the haptic interface may be employed to vibrate client device in a particular way when another user of a computing device is calling.

In one embodiment GPS interface may be a GPS transceiver for receiving a GPS coordinate s . Thus GPS interface can determine the physical coordinates of client device on the surface of the Earth. GPS interface can also employ other geo positioning mechanisms including but not limited to WiFi triangulation Assisted GPS AGPS Enhanced Observed Time Difference E OTD Cell Identity CI Service Area Identity SAI ETA BSS and the like to further determine the physical location of client device on the surface of the Earth. In an alternate embodiment GPS interface may be configured to provide geographical coordinate s besides GPS coordinate s for example coordinates provided by WiFi triangulation or the like. It is understood that under different conditions GPS interface can determine a physical location within millimeters for client device and in other cases the determined physical location may be less precise such as within a meter or significantly greater distances.

In an alternate embodiment GPS interface may be a Bluetooth transceiver for receiving a GPS coordinate s from another device. The other device may be a GPS source such as GPS source of . The other device may include another GPS transceiver for receiving the GPS coordinate s from a GPS enabled satellite or the like and may send the GPS coordinate s to client device . The GPS coordinate s may be either pushed to or pulled from requested by client device .

Mass memory includes a RAM a ROM and other storage means. Mass memory illustrates another example of computer storage media for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Mass memory stores a basic input output system BIOS for controlling low level operation of client device . The mass memory also stores an operating system for controlling the operation of client device . It will be appreciated that this component may include a general purpose operating system such as a version of UNIX or LINUX or a specialized client communication operating system such as Windows Mobile or the Symbian operating system. The operating system may include an interface with a Java virtual machine module that enables control of hardware components and or operating system operations via Java application programs.

Client device may also be configured to manage activities and data for one user distinct from activities and data for another user of client device . For example in one embodiment operating system may be configured to manage multiple user accounts. For example client device may employ an operating system that is configured to request a user to provide account information such as a user name password smart card s key or the like. When the user logs into the associated account operating system may then manage data activities and the like for the user separate from at least some of the data activities and the like for another user. Thus in one embodiment operating system may be configured to store client device data cookies social networking data location information data or the like based on a client device account. Moreover settings configurations or the like of browser messenger or the like may be based on the user account. Thus when user A is logged into their client user account browser may receive store and or retrieve cookies for user A distinct from cookies associated with another user account on client device .

Memory further includes one or more data storage which can be utilized by client device to store among other things programs and or other data. For example data storage may also be employed to store information that describes various capabilities of client device . The information may then be provided to another device based on any of a variety of events including being sent as part of a header during a communication sent upon request and the like. Moreover data storage may be used to store information such as data received over a network from another computing device data output by a client application on client device data input by a user of client device or the like. For example data storage may include data including cookies and or other client device data sent by a network device. Data storage may also include image files social networking data location information data or the like for display and or use through various applications. Moreover although data storage is illustrated within memory data storage may also reside within other storage mediums including but not limited to CD ROM DVD ROM drive hard disk drive or the like.

Programs may also include computer executable instructions which when executed by client device transmit receive and or otherwise process messages and enable telecommunication with another user of another client device. Other examples of application programs include calendars contact managers task managers transcoders database programs word processing programs spreadsheet programs games CODEC programs and so forth. In addition mass memory stores browser and messenger .

Browser may be configured to receive and to send web pages forms web based messages and the like. Browser may for example receive and display and or play graphics text multimedia audio data and the like employing virtually any web based language including but not limited to Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML such as HyperText Markup Language HTML a wireless application protocol WAP a Handheld Device Markup Language HDML such as Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript and the like. Browser may also be configured to receive store and or provide data. For example in one embodiment browser may receive and store client device data in the form of a cookie or the like.

Messenger may be configured to initiate and manage a messaging session using any of a variety of messaging communications including but not limited to email Short Message Service SMS Instant Message IM Multimedia Message Service MMS internet relay chat IRC mIRC and the like. For example in one embodiment messenger may be configured as an IM application such as AOL Instant Messenger Yahoo Messenger NET Messenger Server ICQ or the like. In another embodiment messenger may be a client application that is configured to integrate and employ a variety of messaging protocols.

Location manager may be configured to enable a user of client device to search for location information based on the user s membership in a social network a GPS coordinate associated with client device and or other search criteria. LM may communicate with a geo location search server such as GSS of over network interface to request a search result or the like. Display of shows an example of an interface that LM may present to the user to enable entering the search criteria. Display and of and respectively show examples of LM presenting search results to the user. LM may present the search result through a proprietary display program through the use of browser or the like.

Moreover LM may be configured to enable a user to enter update location information associated with a GPS coordinate associated with the user in the social network. LM may use display of to enable a user to enter update the location information. As shown LM is optional and at least some of the functionality of LM may be provided directly through server side services e.g. web pages communicating with device through browser and or network interface s .

Alert manager may be configured to automatically receive search result s based on the user s membership in a social network a GPS coordinate associated with client device and or search criteria. Alert manager may receive a push of the search result s over network interface or the like. Alert manager may be configured by user preferences to receive block or ignore the pushed search result s . Alert manager may send the pushed search result s to LM and or browser for display. As shown alert manager is optional and at least some of the functionality of alert manager may be provided directly through server side services e.g. web pages communicating with device through browser and or network interface s .

Although LM and alert manager are described as operating on GPS coordinates in an alternate embodiment these components can be modified to operate substantially similarly with any geographical coordinates using any of a variety of other mechanisms without departing from the scope of the invention. For example LM may manage entry update of geographical coordinates into the social network and alert manager may be configured to receive and provide the geographical coordinates.

Network device includes processing unit video display adapter and a mass memory all in communication with each other via bus . The mass memory generally includes RAM ROM and one or more permanent mass storage devices such as hard disk drive tape drive optical drive and or floppy disk drive. The mass memory stores operating system for controlling the operation of network device . Any general purpose operating system may be employed. Basic input output system BIOS is also provided for controlling the low level operation of network device . As illustrated in network device also can communicate with the Internet or some other communications network via network interface unit which is constructed for use with various communication protocols including the TCP IP protocol. Network interface unit is sometimes known as a transceiver transceiving device or network interface card NIC .

The mass memory as described above illustrates another type of computer readable media namely computer storage media. Computer storage media may include volatile nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Examples of computer storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computing device.

The mass memory also stores program code and data. One or more applications are loaded into mass memory and run on operating system . Examples of application programs may include transcoders schedulers calendars database programs word processing programs HTTP programs customizable user interface programs IPSec applications encryption programs security programs VPN programs SMS message servers IM message servers email servers account management and so forth.

Location Information Service LIS may include any component configured to search provide update enter or otherwise manage location information including GPS coordinates and or other location information associated with GPS coordinates and with members in the social network. LIS may receive the location information over network interface or the like. In one embodiment LIS may associate the location information with the GPS coordinate s and with the member in a social network data structure such as social network of in a database table s such as table of or the like. The social network data structure or database may be stored within for example hard disk drive or the like.

LIS may search through the social network or request Social Network Manager SNM to search through the social network for members associated with the requested location information. In one embodiment LIS may manage the location information remotely over network interface by communicating with a location information service such as GLT server rating and review server and sponsored search ad server of . LIS may employ a process such as described below in conjunction with to perform at least some of its actions.

SNM includes any component for managing a social network over a network. SNM may be configured to create update search or otherwise manage the social network over network interface unit . SNM may employ a process such as described below in conjunction with to perform at least some of its actions.

SNM may store the social network in a datastore including hard disk drive or the like. One embodiment of a representation of a social network is described in more detail in conjunction with social network of table of and or table of for example. Briefly however the social network may be stored as a graph tree database or any other data structure. The members of the social network may be indexed by their unique member ID or the like for quick update lookup or the like.

The social network may also have characteristics such as a size of a community for a particular member. The community of a member may be defined as a set of other members within a degree of separation from the member a set of other members having a particular strength of association with the member a maximum number of members in the community or the like. Referring briefly to social network of community of member shows an example of a community.

The social network of members may be searched for location information related to the members by a depth first search breadth first search A search or any type of search algorithm for a graph and or tree structure. Referring briefly to social network of a depth first search of member may begin at member continue member then to member and member where a stopping condition occurs. Next the search continues to member . The depth first search may take into account already visited members and may not continue to member .

An A search may be similar to the depth first search except that the stopping condition may be based on a heuristic such as a strength of relatedness of the next member to be searched an amount or last update of activity of the next member to be searched or the like. In this manner the search may focus on members with high relatedness to each other.

A breadth first search may begin at member continue to member and then continue to another member at a same degree of separation e.g. member then continue to members of the next degree of separation e.g. member and so forth until a stopping condition occurs.

Although shown as a graph structure in social network the social network need not be stored in a graph structure. For example referring briefly to table of the rows of the table may represent associations between location information and members of a social network. The members indexed by member IDs may be searched by searching all rows of table or all rows for members belonging to a particular community e.g. one of communities . One example of a possible SQL statement for selecting location information from table that is within a proximity to GPS coordinate s a b and based on member IDs is 

SELECT FROM Table  WHERE GPS COORDINATE X a search distance X AND GPS COORDINATE X b search distance X and GPS COORDINATE Y

In this example GPS COORDINATE X may represent a longitude value and GPS COORDINATE Y may represent a latitude value. The proximity to measure is based on the parameter search distance given that a 1 degree change in latitude or longitude is equal to X meters e.g. 1 meter 1 x degree change . Thus the above statement finds location information associated with GPS coordinate s within a search distance to a b .

In general it will be clear to one in the art how to readily modify the above SQL statement to find for any GPS coordinate s x1 y1 another GPS coordinate s x2 y2 such that a distance d between x1 y1 and x2 y2 is less than or equal to search distance. The distance d between x1 y1 and x2 y2 may be given by the formula square root over square root over 

Other formulas may also be used to take into account the curvature of the Earth such as the Haversine formula or the like. Briefly the Haversine formula operates as follows 

Thus it will be clear to one in the art how to modify the above SQL statement to find for any GPS coordinate s x1 y1 another GPS coordinate s x2 y2 such that a distance d between x1 y1 and x2 y2 is less than or equal to search distance while taking into account the curvature of the Earth.

Referring back to network device Route Mapper RM may include any component for mapping a route from one geographical location to another. RM may access a street map or other topological map stored in a datastore including hard disk drive or the like. Given a start location and an end location RM may find a route between the locations using any route mapping algorithm including the Moore algorithm a shortest path algorithm lowest traffic time algorithm Frank Wolfe algorithm Wardrop equilibrium algorithm or the like. The use of these algorithms may also take into account finding a route through intermediate locations. In one embodiment the start location end location and or intermediate locations may be identified by GPS coordinates. RM may request from LIS at least some location description such as location names associated with a GPS coordinate of a location in the route or the like. RM may employ a process such as described below in conjunction with to perform at least some of its actions.

Messenger service includes any component for enabling a communication between a plurality of devices. Messenger service may be configured to relay messages between two or more of client devices of for example. Messenger service may relay IM SMS email and or VOIP messages or otherwise enable a communication between the plurality of devices. In one embodiment messenger service may route messages through an intermediate messenger server such as messenger server of or the like. In one embodiment messenger service may enable a communication between a member of the social network and another member of the social network associated with a GPS coordinate. Messenger service may employ a process such as described below in conjunction with to perform at least some of its actions.

Although LIS SNM and RM are described as operating on GPS coordinates in an alternate embodiment these components can be modified to operate substantially similarly with any geographical coordinates using any of a variety of other mechanisms without departing from the scope of the invention. For example LIS may geographical coordinates and SNM may manage the geographical coordinates in the social network and RM may manage routes between and or through at least some points associated with the geographical coordinates.

The operation of certain aspects of the invention will now be described with respect to . illustrates a logical flow diagram generally showing one embodiment of providing location information based in part on a social network. Process of may be implemented within GSS GLT Server rating and review server messenger server and or sponsored search ad server of .

Process of begins at block where a GPS coordinate is received from a client device associated with a member of a social network. In one embodiment the GPS coordinate may identify a geographical location of the client device. In one embodiment the client device may be a mobile device such as mobile devices of or the like. In one embodiment search criteria criterion may also be received from the client device. In one embodiment information about or identifying the member may be received with the GPS coordinate search criteria or may have been sent earlier by the client device e.g. in a login process may be associated with the client device by way of the client device s MAC address IP address or other address or the like. In another embodiment the GPS coordinate search criteria and or information about or identifying the member may be received from another process or device.

Processing next continues to block where the social network is searched for another member associated with a location name based on the GPS coordinate and or the search criteria. The search of the social network may begin at the member. In one embodiment the search may be a breadth first search depth first search A search or the like from the member to other related members of the social network as described above in conjunction with . The search may continue until at least one member associated with a location name is found a pre defined number of members associated with location names are found a depth of the search has been reached or some other search stopping criteria has been reached.

In one embodiment the other member is found if a previously stored GPS coordinate associated with the location name and with the other member is within a proximity to the GPS coordinate received from the client device. In one embodiment the search distance defining the proximity may be provided in the search criteria. The location name and the GPS coordinate may be directly associated linked in the social network with the other member or may be associated with a community of the other member. Referring briefly to social network the search may begin with member . If the GPS coordinate provided by the client device is within a proximity to GPS coordinate then member is found and location names are provided for further processing. Alternatively if the GPS coordinate provided by the client device is within a proximity to GPS coordinate then location name associated with the community of member and thus associated with member is provided for further processing.

In one embodiment besides being based on the GPS coordinate received from the client device the search may also be based on a local time. In this embodiment the local time is determined based on the GPS coordinate and on a time of receiving the GPS coordinate and or the search criteria. In one embodiment the local time may be determined from a GPS coordinate based on a Universal Coordinate Time UTC or other global time measure and taking into account the local time zone of the GPS coordinate. In another embodiment the global time measure may be received from a GPS source e.g. the source for the GPS coordinate . In another embodiment the local time may be a day of the week a day of the month a holiday or the like based on the GPS determined local time. For example a member A may have entered a location name Restaurant for a GPS coordinate at a local time of 17 00 when member A was at or near the restaurant. The local time is also associated with the location name the GPS coordinate and with the member A in the social network. If member B searches for any location at or near the GPS coordinate and at time 17 30 then the location name Restaurant may be returned because the time 17 30 is within a range of time 17 00. In any case if the local time is within a range of a time associated with the location name then the location name is provided for further processing. The range may be determined by an administrator as a set of time values representing temporal closeness by the searching member or the like.

In an alternate embodiment at block of an optional search may be performed on a default pre populated database of geographical information database or the like. In one embodiment the database may be searched if location names are not found in the social network. In another embodiment location information from the database may augment the location information found in the social network. In any case the GPS coordinate provided by the client device may be matched against GPS coordinates in the database based on any variety of database searches including b tree searches linear searches or the like. The location names and or other location information found in the database may also be provided for further processing.

Processing next continues to block where each found location names is included as a search result in a plurality of search results. A search result may be a record object or any other data structure. In one embodiment one or more location descriptions associated with the appropriate found location name may also be included in a search result. Location descriptions include a tag remark comment local time rating the GPS coordinate or the like. An example search result may include location name of social network of for example. Location description may also be included in the same search result as location name . In general the search results may be stored in any format configured for retrieval ordering filtering and searching.

In one embodiment the plurality of search results may comprise a list a two dimensional array of points e.g. representations of locations corresponding the GPS coordinates of the location names in the search result or the like. Display of and display of show examples of a display of the two dimensional array. In another embodiment the plurality of search result may be stored and or represented in more than two dimension wherein the other dimensions greater than the second dimension may represent a relevancy of the location name time for which the location name is relevant a depth or height of a landmark identified by the location name or the like.

Processing next continues to decision block where it is determined if a search result record in the plurality of search results is a sponsored advertisement. A sponsored advertisement includes any location information e.g. included in a search result record for which any member of the social network or any third party has paid for the location description to be included in the plurality of search results. In one embodiment the other member third party may purchase an association between the location information and the GPS coordinate a set of search words or the like. Thus in one embodiment a payment may be received from the other member for associating another GPS coordinate with the location name in the social network wherein the other GPS coordinate is within a proximity to the GPS coordinate. If it is determined that the location information search result is a sponsored advertisement processing continues to block . Otherwise processing continues to block .

At block the search result e.g. the location name or other location information associated with the search result is indicated as a sponsored advertisement within the plurality of search results. In one embodiment a field associated with the search result may be marked as a sponsored advertisement and or the field may be used to display the search result as a sponsored advertisement. For example display of may show point in a different color shape size or the like to indicate point as a sponsored advertisement. Processing then continues to block .

At block the plurality of search results are filtered based on the search criteria received from the client device and or based on information about the social network. In one embodiment the search criteria may include a query string a search distance a search time a rating level a community filter for the social network or a time of last update of the location information e.g. information updated within a recent time period e.g. last N days . An example of search criteria may include a distance from here e.g. where I am currently located tag e.g. great restaurant or cinema time e.g. 1 hour from now and rating e.g. 4 stars or the like. The where I am criterion and time information can be based on the GPS coordinates sent from the client device.

In any case each one of the search criteria may be associated with a type of location information. Accordingly based on the type of the location information e.g. string type time type rating type location type GPS coordinate the appropriate search criterion is matched against the particular location information. If a search result in the plurality of search results fails to match at least one of the search criteria then the search result is filtered out of the plurality of search results. In one embodiment the search result may also be filtered out unless it matches all of the search criteria.

For a string typed search criterion the search criterion may match location information e.g. location description or location name in a particular search result if at least a portion of a string of the location information matches the search criterion. The match may be based on any string based search techniques such as a regular expression match a partial string match a fuzzy string match information retrieval searching latent semantic indexing or the like. These string based search criterion may include a search query a Boolean query a search string a word a set of words a time range a rating range or the like. Searching may also involve removing stop words stemming of strings performing an inverse index lookup of the word performing a Boolean match or the like. Referring briefly to the search criteria including the query string restaurants may match the row identified by record ID based on a stemming of the word restaurants to restaurant and based on a partial substring match of the string Best Restaurant. 

For non string based criteria an appropriate type based matching may be performed e.g. a matching of a time within a range of times a matching of a rating within a range of ratings or the like . For time matching the range may be determined by an administrator as a set of time values representing temporal closeness by the searching member or the like. Referring briefly to a search criterion including the time 16 00 may match the row identified by record ID because the time 16 00 may be within a close range of time 16 30 .

In one embodiment the search criteria may include a community filter for the social network and accordingly filtering may be based on this information about the social network. The community filter may be a degree of separation between members of the social network or any other information about a community of the member. The community of a member may be defined by for example an administrator the member or the like in a variety of ways. The community of a member may be defined as a set of other members within a degree of separation of the member a set of other members having strength of association with the member a maximum number of members in the community or the like. In one embodiment a search result associated with members who are outside the community may be filtered out. Referring briefly to the search criteria may include the community filter e.g. the community of member . The search criteria may match the rows identified by record IDs and may filter out any rows with member IDs not in .

In another embodiment a first member with a same or lower degree of separation than the degree of separation defined in a community filter may be selected to remain in the search result while other members with a higher degree of separation may be filtered out. Referring briefly to members may be included in the community of member but members may be filtered out because they are more degrees of separation form member than members .

Referring back to process processing next continues to block where the search results are ordered based on relevancy information of a search result included in the plurality of search results. In one embodiment relevancy information may include a degree of separation between the member and the other members associated with search results an amount of match of the search criteria a relevancy score a status of the search result e.g. as a sponsored advertisement an origin of the search result e.g. from the social network or from a default database a rating associated with the search result e.g. where a location description in the search result is a rating or virtually any other relevancy information.

In one embodiment the search result with a greater amount of match may be ordered higher in the search results e.g. ordered before another search result indicated as larger on a N dimensional map or the like . Referring briefly to search criteria including the query string store and a time 12 00 may match the rows identified by record IDs because the query string store matches and the time 12 00 partially matches the rows. In this example the row identified by record ID would be ordered higher in the plurality of search results because the search criteria matches both the location name and time for record ID but only matches the location name for record ID .

In another embodiment the relevancy information may include social network information. In this embodiment a first search result associated with a first member of the social network may be ordered higher in the search results than a second search result associated with a second member if the first member has a lower degree of separation from the member associated with the client device than the second member. Referring briefly to for a search by member a search result including information provided by member e.g. location names may be ordered higher than other search results.

In yet another embodiment a relevancy score may be associated with at least one of location information in a search result. The relevancy score may be used alone or in combination with other relevancy information to order the search results. Referring briefly to search results may include the rows identified by record IDs . The row identified by record ID may be ordered higher in the search results because it has a higher relevancy score 0.8 than relevancy score 0.5 . In one embodiment relevancy scores may be determined by a block of .

In an alternate embodiment the ordering may be based on a combination of the relevancy information described above or any other relevancy information. In one embodiment the relevancy information may be the amount of match multiplied by an inverse of the degree of separation or the like.

Processing next continues to block where the search results are provided to the client device a calling process or another process or device. In one embodiment the search result may be provided as a list e.g. text XML or the like an HTML page an image over a network or the like. Display of shows an example of the provided search results.

In one embodiment the search results may be pushed to the client device e.g. as an alert providing the search results or the like . In another embodiment the client device may pull through a HTTP request or the like the search results e.g. as a map that includes the location description of each of the search results . In one embodiment the member associated with the client device may specify a preference for delivery of search results e.g. as pushed or pulled search results . In one embodiment the preference may specify a time of day range when the search results may be pushed pulled a geographical location range for which the search results may be pushed pulled or the like. In one embodiment the preference may even specify that sponsored advertisements may be blocked filtered from the member. In another embodiment the preference may be based on an aggregate of preferences of members of a community. Processing then returns to calling process for further processing.

In an alternate embodiment blocks and may be optional and might not be performed. In another alternate embodiment blocks and or may occur concurrently. In this embodiment appropriate location names and or tags may be selected filtered and or ordered while the social network is being searched for members associated with the location names. The plurality of search results may be modified based in part on a match of at least one search result of the plurality of search results with a search criteria received form the client device and further based on relevancy information associated with the at least one search result.

Process of begins at block where at least one of a start location and an end location for a route are received from a client device over a network or the like. The at least one locations may be received from a member of a social network using the client device. The at least one locations may include any location information including a GPS coordinate a location name or the like. In one embodiment both the start location and end location are received from the client device.

In another embodiment only one of the start location or end location is received and the other location is determined based on an identity of the member in the social network. For example the other location may be based on interests of the member or community of the member. In this embodiment the other location may be a frequently searched location a highly rated location for the member community or the like. In one embodiment the other location may be within a proximity to a GPS coordinate associated with the client device. A time associated with the other location may also be within a close range of a current local time associated with the client device or the like. The other location may also be a sponsored advertisement. In an alternative embodiment block may be optional and both the start location and end location may be determined based on an interest of the member or the community.

Processing next continues to block where a GPS coordinate and or search criteria associated with either the start location and or end location is determined. In one embodiment the GPS coordinate and or the search criteria may be provided by the client device. Alternatively the GPS coordinate may be retrieved from the social network e.g. the GPS coordinate is associated with a location of interest of the member or the community of the member. In another embodiment the GPS coordinate may be a point e.g. a midway point between a first GPS coordinate associated with the start location and an end GPS coordinate associated with the end location. Also in an alternate embodiment the search criteria may be determined based on at least a part of a location description e.g. a local time a tag or the like associated with the start and or end location. For example the search criteria may include the query string music if the start and or end location are associated with the location description music store. Accordingly the search criteria and GPS coordinate may define a search of similar locations within a proximity to the particular location.

Processing next continues to block where a plurality of search results including other locations e.g. location information location names or the like are received based on the GPS coordinate a search criterion criteria and or information about the member associated with the client device. In one embodiment the social network is searched for another member and a location of interest based on the GPS coordinate and the search criterion criteria wherein the location of interest has been identified in the social network as relevant to the other member. In one embodiment the searching may be performed by process of and or signal flow of .

Processing next continues to block where a search result location included in the plurality of search results may be used to determine at least one location of interest. In one embodiment the location of interest may include the start location or the end location e.g. there are no other locations in the route between the start location and end location . In one embodiment each search result of the plurality of search results may be a location of interest. In one embodiment the geographically closest location may be determined to be the location of interest. In another embodiment the search result ordered the highest in the plurality of search results may be determined as the location of interest.

Processing next continues to block where a route is determined between the start location and the end location and wherein the route includes at least one location of interest e.g. the route is though the at least one location of interest . The route between the locations may be determined using any route mapping algorithm including those discussed above.

Processing next continues to block where the route is provided to the client device. In one embodiment the route may be included in the search results and provided to the client device. For example the route may be over laid on an HTML image or other version of the search results or the like. In another embodiment the route may be included in a separate field in the search result. In any case the modified search result including the route is provided to client device or another process or device. In one embodiment the modified search results are pushed to or pulled from the client device substantially similar to the process described in block of . Display of shows an example of the provided modified search results including the route. Processing then returns to calling process for further processing.

As an example of process a member searches for a route from A to B at or around 10 A.M. local time by for example sending entering a GPS coordinate associated with the member s client device as point A and another GPS coordinate as point B. If the changing of the guards at Buckingham palace is near the route from A to B at or near 10 A.M then the route presented may include the location of the changing of the guards as a location of interest along the path from A to B. If however the member is traveling at 12 A.M. and the changing of the guards does not happen at that time then this location of interest may not be included in the route from A to B.

Process of begins at block where search results of location names and or location descriptions are received based on a GPS coordinate and or a search criterion criteria. In one embodiment the search results may be requested by a member of a social network through a client device and the GPS coordinate may be associated with a geographical location of the client device. In one embodiment a request for location information in the social network associated with the GPS coordinate may be received from the client device associated with the member of the social network. In response to the request for the location information a location name associated with another member of a social network based on the GPS coordinate may be provided to the client device. In one embodiment the searching requesting providing may be performed by process of and or signal flow of .

Processing next continues to block where the client device may be provided with a mechanism for updating and or entering another location name associated with the GPS coordinate. In one embodiment the mechanism may be an entry box for entering and or updating the text of the location name. In another embodiment the mechanism may provide a selection list of possible location names based on a history of location names entered at a location within a proximity to the GPS coordinate and or at a time within a close range to a local time associated with the GPS coordinate. The member may select one of the location names in the list.

Processing next continues to decision block where it is determined if another location name associated with the GPS coordinate is received from the client device. Display of is an example of a possible display used by the client device to enable the member to enter the other location name associated with the GPS coordinate. If it is determined that the other location name is received then processing continues to block . Otherwise processing continues to block .

At block the other location name may be associated with the GPS coordinate and or with the member in the social network. In another embodiment instead of being associated with the GPS coordinate received from the client device the other location name may be associated with another GPS coordinate originally associated with the location name provided in the search results at block . Alternately the location name may be associated with an intermediate GPS coordinate between the received GPS coordinate and the other GPS coordinate.

In any case the location name may be canonicalized e.g. capitalized stemmed transcoded or otherwise pre processed to covert the location name into a standardized format. In one embodiment if a previously stored location name associated with the GPS coordinate is substantially similar to the other location name e.g. based on partial string match removing stop words stemming the words or the like the other location name may be changed to be previously stored location name. For example given the other location name The Best Restaurant and the other previously stored location name BEST RESTAURANT the other location name may be canonicalized into BEST RESTAURANT. 

In one embodiment at block a local time e.g. a type of location description may also be associated with the other location name in the social network. The local time may be determined based on the GPS coordinate and on a time of receiving the other location name. In this embodiment the current time of the server is translated into a local time of the client device based on a time zone associated with the GPS coordinate. For example in social network location description may be a time at or near the time that location name was received from member .

In any case the other location name and or determined local time are updated e.g. associated with the member and the GPS coordinate in the social network to enable further searching of the social network for the other location name to enable another request for location information associated with the GPS coordinate to return at least the location name and the other location name or the like. The other location name and or determined local time may be updated in for example a social network data structure such as social network of or a database table such as tables and of respectively.

In one embodiment a relevancy score may be updated for an association between the other location name and a GPS coordinate. The update may occur for the member and or a community of the member. For example in social network of relevancy scores for associations between GPS coordinate and location names represent how closely GPS coordinate is identified by location names for member and or community for member . As shown the association between location name and GPS coordinate is more relevant for member .

In any case in one embodiment the relevancy score for the association between the other location name and the GPS coordinate for the member may be increased based on a frequency of receiving the other location name wherein the increased relevancy score is configured to be used in part to order search results of location names. Accordingly as more members of a community associate a particular location name with the GPS coordinate the relevancy score may become higher. The relevancy score may be used by process of and or signal flow of to in part order or filter a search result.

Referring back to process processing next continues to block where the member may be provided with a mechanism for updating and or entering tag rating comment local time or other location description associated with the other location name. In one embodiment the mechanism may be an entry box for entering and or updating the text of the location description e.g. tag rating or the like . In another embodiment the mechanism may provide a selection list of possible location description based on a history of location description entered at a location within a proximity to the GPS coordinate and or at a time within a close range to a local time associated with the GPS coordinate. The member may select one of the location descriptions in the list. In one embodiment the mechanism for entering the other location name of block and the mechanism for entering the location description may be the same mechanism. Display of shows one embodiment of a display for entering updating location description associated with members in a social network.

Processing next continues to decision block where it is determined if the location description is received from the client device. In one embodiment the location description and or the other location name from block may be received concurrently. If it is determined that the location description is received then processing continues to block . Otherwise processing continues to decision block .

At block the location description may be associated with the original location name received as part of the search results of block and or with the other location name received from block . In one embodiment the location description may be associated to enable another searching of the social network based on or using the location description or the like. The location description may also be associated with the member or a community of the member in the social network. In one embodiment the location name maybe canonicalized substantially similar to the process of block . As an example social network of shows location description associated with location name . Location description may have been entered updated by member .

In one embodiment the location description may be a local time determined locally by the client device via an internal clock or the like and sent to a server for updating entering. In an alternate embodiment the other location description may be a comment. The comment may be about a location name entered by the member and may be sent to the other member. The comment may be sent to the other member over the other member s preferred mode of communication e.g. IM SMS email web post blogging or the like .

Processing next continues to decision block where it is determined whether more updating entering of location names or location description is required. In one embodiment the member using the client device may continue to request more search results. In another embodiment other members using other client devices may request more search results. In any case subsequent searches are refined to take into account the entered location name and location description. If it is determined that more updating is required then processing loops back to block . Otherwise processing returns to a calling process for further processing.

Although process is described as associating location information e.g. location name and location description with the member process may be modified to associate the location information with other members a community or even all member of the social network without departing from the scope of the invention. In one embodiment the location information may be associated with the other member e.g. an originating member who originally entered the location name provided in the search results at block . In another embodiment the location information may be also associated with a community. The community may include both the member and the other member. For example referring to GPS coordinate location name and location description may be originally associated with member . Member may also associate location description with GPS coordinate . As a result GPS coordinate location name and location description may be changed to be associated with all members of the community of member .

Process of begins at block where a search result including a location name and or other location information is received based on a GPS coordinate and or search criteria. In one embodiment the search result may be requested by a member of a social network through a client device and the location name may be associated with another member of the social network. The GPS coordinate may be received from the client device. In one embodiment the searching may be performed by process of and or signal flow of .

Processing next continues to decision block where it is determined if the member is within a proximity to the other member. In one embodiment the GPS coordinate may be used to determine the geographical location of the member. In one embodiment another GPS coordinate of the other member may be received from another client device of the other member. In yet another embodiment a geographical location of the other member may be stored in a database or other datastore determined based on a MAC address or an IP address of a client device of the other member or the like. In any case based on a distance between the geographical location of the members it is determined whether the members are within a proximity to each other. If the members are within a proximity to each other then processing continues to block . Otherwise processing returns to a calling process for further processing.

Processing next continues to decision block where a communication is enabled between the member and the other member. In one embodiment the communication may be based on the preference s of either or both the member and the other member. The preference s may include a particular mode of communication a geographical area or time of day to receive the information a minimal degree of separation between the members before communication is enabled a block list of members for whom no communication is allowed whether communication should be enabled at all e.g. a complete block of communication or the like. The communication may be any form of communication including an IM SMS email web post blogging or the like. In one embodiment the members may also be enabled to provide their geographical locations to each other as part of the communication. In another embodiment the geographical locations may be provided before the communication is enabled. In an alternate embodiment the communication is enabled between the member and a plurality of other members associated with search results based on whether the other members are within a proximity to the member.

As one example of a use case of process a member arrives in a city and performs a GPS coordinate search of the area that he she is currently in. If there is another member currently active in the search area who has entered at least one of the search results of the search the member can chat with the other member s . Either member could opt in to receive messages. The geographical location of the members can be hidden from each other until after the chatting begins and or the members decide to reveal their actual physical location to each other.

It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration can be implemented by computer program instructions. These program instructions may be provided to a processor to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the processor create means for implementing the actions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may be executed by a processor to cause a series of operational steps to be performed by the processor to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the processor to provide steps for implementing the actions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also cause at least some of the operational steps shown in the blocks of the flowchart to be performed in parallel. Moreover some of the steps may also be performed across more than one processor such as might arise in a multi processor computer system. In addition one or more blocks or combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration may also be performed concurrently with other blocks or combinations of blocks or even in a different sequence than illustrated without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

Accordingly blocks of the flowchart illustration support combinations of means for performing the specified actions combinations of steps for performing the specified actions and program instruction means for performing the specified actions. It will also be understood that each block of the flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems which perform the specified actions or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

User enters several search criteria including a text to search for e.g. matched against tags location names or any other text field associated with a GPS coordinate a search distance a search time a rating filter a community filter or the like. The search distance may represent a distance from the current location of client device e.g. identified by a GPS coordinate s received from GPS source . A search time may default to a current local time if one is not entered. A community filter may default to user s community.

As shown client device retrieves a GPS coordinate s from GPS source . In another embodiment the client device may include a GPS receiver configured to retrieve the GPS coordinate s without communicating with GPS source . Client device also submits the search criteria and the GPS coordinate s to Geo location Search Server GSS for further processing. In response Client device receives the search result s from GSS . Client device displays the search result s on a display in an HTML enabled browser in a proprietary display or the like.

GPS source may be a Bluetooth enabled GPS device configured to communicate one or more GPS coordinates with client device . GPS source receives a request for a GPS coordinate s and returns the GPS coordinate s of where GPS source is located. In one embodiment GPS source may be configured to return one ore more GPS coordinate s e.g. a longitude a latitude a range of longitudes and latitudes near its current geographical location or the like .

GSS receives the search criteria and performs a search of a social network for a location name based on the GPS coordinate s and the search criteria. In one embodiment if the location name is absent from the social network a member in the social network associated with the location name is not found or the search does not otherwise return a search result GSS may request from GLT Server an address associated with the geographical coordinate and may provide this address as the location name. The search process is described in more detail in process of . In the embodiment shown GSS may also search for ratings associated with a location name and or GPS coordinate s . In one embodiment GSS may only return search results with ratings that match the rating filter provided in the search criteria. In any case GSS returns the search results to client device .

Rating and review server may receive a request for a rating for a location name and or GPS coordinate. The request may be a search criteria e.g. rating filter . Thus rating and review server may only return ratings that match the search criteria. In another embodiment rating and review server may return all ratings associated with the location name and or GPS coordinate.

As shown user requests a location via a search or other form of retrieval request. Client device may respond to the request for the location by among other things getting a GPS coordinate s from GPS source . The location may be specified as a single GPS coordinate but may also be specified as a proximity or range of GPS coordinates e.g. a meter radius from the GPS coordinate . Although signal flow shows a GPS source providing GPS coordinates to client device signal flow can be modified such that GPS source is optional and unused and the GPS coordinates may be retrieved directly from client device . In one embodiment user may perform a search of a social network similar to the process shown in signal flow of .

Client device may request GLT server for location names e.g. named locations based on the GPS coordinate s . In one embodiment GLT server may respond with address details and or location names for the GPS coordinate s . Based on members update entry or feedback there could be several location names for a GPS coordinate. In on embodiment a street address may be provided as the primary location. In another embodiment location name s provided by other members may be provided. Client device may then display the retrieved location information.

In response user may be enabled by client device to select one of the provided location names e.g. names or address for updating. User may update the location name and or other location description be entering the information into client device . The location description includes tags ratings photos reviews and or other details about the location name. The location name and or other location description are sent to GSS for further processing.

GSS may associate or send a request to GLT server to associate the location name with the GPS coordinate and or with user in the social network. GSS may also associate the location description with the location name and or user in the social network. GSS may also send rating review information received form client device to rating and review server for storage and further processing. Moreover GSS may submit send the location name and GPS coordinate e.g. the named GPS coordinate to GLT server for update association in the social network or other database or datastore.

Although not shown the update association of the location name location description enables GSS to receive a another request for a plurality of location names to be found in the social network based on the received GPS coordinate. GSS may provide in response to the other request at least the location name and the other location name in the plurality of location names wherein the plurality of location names is ordered based on a comparison of a frequency of an update of the location name with another frequency of another update of the other location name.

Although signal flows and are described as operating on GPS coordinates in an alternate embodiment these signal flows can be modified to operate substantially similarly with any geographical coordinates using any of a variety of other mechanisms without departing from the scope of the invention. For example in signal flows and client device may retrieve a geographical coordinate from GPS source and may send the geographical coordinate to GSS for further processing.

In one embodiment a member of the social network may use display of to enter update the location description. As shown label may specify the name of another member who entered the location description. The other member may be the last member who entered updated the information or a member who originally created the location description for the GPS coordinate .

As shown GPS coordinate comprises two text entry boxes pre populated with GPS coordinates determined by the geographical location of the client device. The member may update GPS coordinate .

Location pull down list may display a location name currently associated with the GPS coordinate . Location pull down list may be a selection list of possible location names based on a history of location names entered at a location within a proximity to GPS coordinate and or at a time within a close range to a local time associated with GPS coordinate . In one embodiment the selection list may be sorted based on the most recent location name entered and or by a frequency of a particular location name chosen for GPS coordinate . Accordingly there can possibly be more than one address or location name for a particular location GPS coordinate. Moreover location entry may also enable the member to enter a different location name to be associated with GPS coordinate in the social network. As shown the member has entered Best Restaurant. 

Tag entry enables the member to enter a new tag including a single tag or a set of tags e.g. entered as a list of words with spaces in between . Tag list displays previously entered tags for the location name. In one embodiment the tags in tag list may have been previously entered by for example member John Smith or by any other member of the social network. By pressing button the member may associate the tag in tag entry or the tag selected from tag list if no tag is entered in tag entry with the location name.

Time may be entered as hours and minutes but may be specified as any time measure. Time may be used by the member to specify a time associated with the GPS coordinate and a location name. Time defaults to a current local time for GPS coordinate .

Add media button may enable the member to associate a photo sound bite or video footage or other media with the location name e.g. from location pull down list or from location entry . In one embodiment the media may be stored as a tag or other location description.

Add rating and review button may enable the member to access another display that allows the member to associate a rating and review with the location name. A rating may be any numeric value star rating or other qualitative value.

Submit location button enables the member to submit the location name or any of the location description from display for updating entering in the social network.

Send comment button enables the member to send a comment via another display to another member associated with the location name. For example the member may send a comment to the other member John Smith over a variety of modes of communications including SMS IM email telephone or the like.

Add to community button enables the member to add the other member to the member s community social network. In one embodiment a link may be created between the member and the other member in the social network.

The search may be based in part on GPS coordinate . As shown GPS coordinate comprises two text entry box pre populated with GPS coordinates determined by the location of the client device. The member may update the GPS coordinate .

The search may also be based on other search criteria including a search string determined by search drop down list and or query box proximity list time and or rating drop list .

Search drop down list and or query box enable the member to specify a search string to be matched against location names tags or other location description associated with members in the social network.

Time may be entered as hours and minutes but may be specified as any time measure. Time may be used by the member to specify a time associated with the GPS coordinate and location name. Time defaults to a current local time for the GPS coordinate .

Proximity list enables the user to specify a proximity to search within e.g. a distance from GPS coordinate .

Submit button sends GPS coordinate and or the search criteria specified on display to a server for further searching of the social network. Process of and or signal flow of may be used for example to search the social network.

Advanced search button when pressed provides an advance search display not shown which enables the member to retrieve search results that are determined by other search criteria including whether the searched location information is associated with a review or a photo or other form of media. In one embodiment the advance search display enables the member to add a filter to only return locations that have been added within the past X days.

As shown the search results for a search of Restaurants within 500 meters specified by label are shown in display of . In one embodiment display may show search results based on search criteria provided from display of . In another embodiment display may be pushed to the client device based on a variety of conditions including a time period a physical proximity to a location e.g. a sponsor s location or the like. In any case display includes the map of the searched area. Each of the points corresponds to different one of the returned search results and represents a different location. Some or all of the search results may be displayed.

The search results may be ordered such that some points are more relevant to the user of display member then other points. For example point is larger e.g. more relevant than point and point is larger than point . Location names may also be shown with the points e.g. Best restaurant for point . Moreover a location description such as a tag may also be shown e.g. drinks after work . A location name point determined to be a sponsored advertisement may be highlighted as such. For example point may be displayed in a different color and the term Sponsor may be added to its location name. In general any indication may be used to indicate the source of sponsorship or that the point is a sponsored point. In one embodiment the member may have opted in or opted out of receiving marketing messages e.g. point .

As shown display also includes zoom bar configured to enable the user to zoom in on a specified are of the map. Chat button may enable the member to communicate with at least one other member associated with at least one of the points shown and who are within an immediate proximity.

Although not shown if the member selects a point a display which includes the details of the search result may be shown. The display may include the name of another member who entered the search result a rating a location name one or more tags or the like. The member may further select a more detailed display associated with the point. The detailed display may be similar to display of . The detailed view may include full details of the location e.g. access to photo and media as well as listing of all tags and access to review s if any are present. From this display the member may select to add the other member who posted the location to the member s community or send a comment to the other member about the location as described in conjunction with . Also the user can leave comments about the location on the location entry. In an alternate embodiment selecting the point may directly show display .

As shown social network may be a graph but may be any other structure configured to store network information including a tree a database a linked list or the like.

Social network includes members . Members maybe related to each other by one or more degrees of separation. For example member is related to members by one degree of separation. Member is related to member by two degrees of separation and to member by three degrees of separation.

Community of member is shown as a boundary around members . Community of member may be determined by any mechanism for grouping members including a maximum degree of separation between member and other members of the community a maximum number of other members closely related to member a particular strength of association between member and the other members or the like.

A detailed view of other objects related to member is also shown. The other objects may have been provided by member provided by other members of social network or even entered as a default setting by for example a system administrator or the like. Process of and or signal flow of may be used to provide the other objects for example. The detailed view includes GPS coordinate location names and location description .

Location name is associated with GPS coordinate and with member by a relevancy score of 0.5. Location name is associated with GPS coordinate and with member by a relevancy score of 0.8. Accordingly location name is more closely related to GPS coordinate and with member than location name .

Location descriptions are associated with location name . While location description is shown as a rating location description is shown as a time and location description is shown as a tag location descriptions may include any type of location description including a comment a review multimedia or the like.

GPS coordinate location name and location description are examples of information associated with all members of a community. GPS coordinate is associated with community for member . GPS coordinate is associated with location name . Location name is associated with location description . In one embodiment GPS coordinate location name and location description may be provided by an administrator pre loaded or the like. In another embodiment this information may be changed from information associated to a particular member to information associated with a community.

As shown table includes records with fields for a record ID GPS coordinate member ID location name community relevancy score and time. These fields are shown as example and other fields may be included or some fields may be omitted without departing from the scope of the invention.

Record IDs are unique IDs for identifying the rows. Values for Record IDs may be unique but may be assigned arbitrarily. GPS coordinates include any type of GPS coordinates. As shown GPS coordinates are shown as being stored in a GPS coordinate X and GPS coordinate Y fields. The GPS coordinate X and GPS coordinate Y fields may for example represent longitude and latitude values respectively. In another embodiment the GPS coordinate X and GPS coordinate Y values may be stored in the same field. Member IDs may be any identifier for members of a social network including numeric identifiers. Location names are shown as string values but may be any type of media including photos video or the like. Communities are lists of members. Relevancy scores may be any numeric or quantitative value configured to be used in ordering or ranking the location information of table . Times may be any time measure.

As shown at least some records of table may include no values for some fields. These fields may match any value. For example time may match any time. Similarly the row identified by record ID may have no value for its member ID and thus may represent a location record for a community.

Moreover some rows may represent default location names for a GPS coordinate e.g. a street address . For example the row identified by record ID includes no values for member ID community relevancy score and time . Thus this row may include default data for GPS coordinates .

Location description types may include any type for location descriptions including a tag a comment a rating a review a time or the like. Location descriptions include the values for the location descriptions.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended.

