---

title: Process for management of complex projects
abstract: A method for managing a complex project is provided. A plurality of phases is established for the complex project, wherein each phase of the plurality of phases has a definite duration and wherein each phase of the plurality of phases has distinct goals. The complex project is divided into a plurality of sub-projects, wherein the plurality of sub-projects is manageable by a central core team and wherein each sub-project is the responsibility of at least one team. The designation of which team is responsible for the sub-project is dependent upon the particular phase in which the sub-project is being performed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08407072&OS=08407072&RS=08407072
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08407072
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060404
---
The present invention relates generally to a data processing system. More specifically the present invention provides a computer implemented method computer program product and data processing system for managing complex projects.

With the advances in technology and the globalization of many industries that have occurred over recent years companies are under ever increasing pressure to improve their cost structure efficiency and overall performance in a marketplace that is becoming ever more competitive. Successful companies continue to reinvent themselves all the time but there are many situations in which a major transformational project will need to be undertaken in order to ensure that a business is to remain competitive. There is ample evidence to suggest that the speed and effectiveness of such transformation projects are extremely important factors in the future success of a company. Flawless execution of the transformation project is essential. Many challenges are involved in executing major transformational projects at the same time as operating a day to day business. Such projects will inevitably cut across a wide range of functional areas and are increasingly likely to also cut across international boundaries and hence significantly widen the tax legal cultural and political implications of the project. Despite this complexity the projects must be executed in a manner that is transparent to a business customers by proactive management of the various risks.

There have been numerous publications on Project Management since the subject became a distinct discipline in the 1960s. In addition many Universities and Business Schools offer courses on Project Management and offer certification programs as well. Despite the wealth of information and guidance in the public domain many companies continue to struggle when executing major projects failing on one or more of the critical axes of cost function and schedule.

The present invention provides a method computer program product and system for managing a complex project. A plurality of phases is established for the complex project wherein each phase of the plurality of phases has a definite duration and wherein each phase of the plurality of phases has distinct goals. The complex project is divided into a plurality of sub projects wherein the plurality of sub projects is manageable by a central core team and wherein each sub project is the responsibility of at least one team. The designation of which team is responsible for the sub project is dependent upon the phase of the plurality of phases during which the sub project is being performed.

With reference now to the figures depicts a pictorial representation of a network of data processing systems in which aspects of the present invention may be implemented. Network data processing system is a network of computers in which embodiments of the present invention may be implemented. Network data processing system contains network which is the medium used to provide communications links between various devices and computers connected together within network data processing system . Network may include connections such as wire wireless communication links or fiber optic cables.

In the depicted example server and server connect to network along with storage unit . In addition clients and connect to network . These clients and may be for example personal computers or network computers. In the depicted example server provides data such as boot files operating system images and applications to clients and . Clients and are clients to server in this example. Network data processing system may include additional servers clients and other devices not shown.

In the depicted example network data processing system is the Internet with network representing a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers consisting of thousands of commercial government educational and other computer systems that route data and messages. Of course network data processing system also may be implemented as a number of different types of networks such as for example an intranet a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . is intended as an example and not as an architectural limitation for different embodiments of the present invention.

With reference now to a block diagram of a data processing system is shown in which aspects of the present invention may be implemented. Data processing system is an example of a computer such as server or client in in which computer usable code or instructions implementing the processes for embodiments of the present invention may be located.

In the depicted example data processing system employs a hub architecture including north bridge and memory controller hub NB MCH and south bridge and input output I O controller hub ICH . Processing unit main memory and graphics processor are connected to north bridge and memory controller hub . Graphics processor may be connected to north bridge and memory controller hub through an accelerated graphics port AGP .

In the depicted example local area network LAN adapter connects to south bridge and I O controller hub . Audio adapter keyboard and mouse adapter modem read only memory ROM hard disk drive HDD CD ROM drive universal serial bus USB ports and other communications ports and PCI PCIe devices connect to south bridge and I O controller hub through bus and bus . PCI PCIe devices may include for example Ethernet adapters add in cards and PC cards for notebook computers. PCI uses a card bus controller while PCIe does not. ROM may be for example a flash binary input output system BIOS .

Hard disk drive and CD ROM drive connect to south bridge and I O controller hub through bus . Hard disk drive and CD ROM drive may use for example an integrated drive electronics IDE or serial advanced technology attachment SATA interface. Super I O SIO device may be connected to south bridge and I O controller hub .

An operating system runs on processing unit and coordinates and provides control of various components within data processing system in . As a client the operating system may be a commercially available operating system such as Microsoft Windows XP Microsoft and Windows are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both . An object oriented programming system such as the Java programming system may run in conjunction with the operating system and provides calls to the operating system from Java programs or applications executing on data processing system Java is a trademark of Sun Microsystems Inc. in the United States other countries or both .

As a server data processing system may be for example an IBM eServer pSeries computer system running the Advanced Interactive Executive AIX operating system or LINUX operating system eServer pSeries and AIX are trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation in the United States other countries or both while Linux is a trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States other countries or both . Data processing system may be a symmetric multiprocessor SMP system including a plurality of processors in processing unit . Alternatively a single processor system may be employed.

Instructions for the operating system the object oriented programming system and applications or programs are located on storage devices such as hard disk drive and may be loaded into main memory for execution by processing unit . The processes for embodiments of the present invention are performed by processing unit using computer usable program code which may be located in a memory such as for example main memory read only memory or in one or more peripheral devices and .

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware in may vary depending on the implementation. Other internal hardware or peripheral devices such as flash memory equivalent non volatile memory or optical disk drives and the like may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted in . Also the processes of the present invention may be applied to a multiprocessor data processing system.

In some illustrative examples data processing system may be a personal digital assistant PDA which is configured with flash memory to provide non volatile memory for storing operating system files and or user generated data.

A bus system may be comprised of one or more buses such as bus or bus as shown in . Of course the bus system may be implemented using any type of communications fabric or architecture that provides for a transfer of data between different components or devices attached to the fabric or architecture. A communications unit may include one or more devices used to transmit and receive data such as modem or network adapter of . A memory may be for example main memory read only memory or a cache such as found in north bridge and memory controller hub in . The depicted examples in and above described examples are not meant to imply architectural limitations. For example data processing system also may be a tablet computer laptop computer or telephone device in addition to taking the form of a PDA.

Turning to typical software architecture for a server client system generally denoted by reference number is depicted in which exemplary aspects of the present invention may be implemented. At the lowest level operating system is utilized to provide high level functionality to the user and to other software. Such an operating system typically includes a basic input output system BIOS . Communication software provides communications through an external port to a network such as the Internet via a physical communications link by either directly invoking operating system functionality or indirectly bypassing the operating system to access the hardware for communications over the network.

Application programming interface API allows the user of the system an individual or a software routine to invoke system capabilities using a standard consistent interface without concern for how the particular functionality is implemented. Network access software represents any software available for allowing the system to access a network. This access may be to a network such as a local area network LAN wide area network WAN or the Internet. With the Internet this software may include programs such as Web browsers.

Application software represents any number of software applications designed to react to data through the communications port to provide the desired functionality the user seeks. Applications at this level may include those necessary to handle data video graphics photos or text which can be accessed by users of the Internet.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention describe procedures that may be employed to achieve a highly decentralized management of a wide variety of extremely complex projects that may cross functional geographical cultural company and political boundaries. A complex project is any major transformational project such as for example a merger an acquisition a restructuring or a joint development project. A fundamental principle of the procedure is to manage the overall project with a central core team with a particular focus on ensuring that all business control aspects are handled appropriately. A central core team is a small team of individuals may be only six or ten individuals who are responsible for the completion of the complex project. Additionally the overall project should be segmented into much smaller sub projects each sub project being manageable by decentralized teams. A sub project is a part of the overall complex project focusing on a specific area. Furthermore the central core team needs to provide clarity of direction and clear communication of decisions. The central core team and its executives should have full ownership and accountability and they should actively manage the risks and dependencies of the complex project. The central core team needs to drive a true end to end sub projects focus with the decentralized teams to ensure that the smaller sub projects all work together efficiently.

The central core team needs to manage in a highly decentralized manner in order to ensure that complex projects that are on tight schedules are completed in a timely manner. In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the central core team is led by a key senior executive from each company involved in the complex project. In the case where a complex project does not involve multiple companies but rather a single company the central core team is led by key senior personnel from each department or division involved.

The central core team has several important functions. The central core team has the task of creating the high level framework both in terms of structure and principles on which to build all the individual elements. The central core team communicates the guiding principles to the decentralized teams in order to establish decision making authorities and to avoid the need for multiple reviews and approvals. The central core team also provides the common tools and databases to be used for project tracking.

Furthermore the central core team has to implement rigorous change control once a plan of record POR is established. The POR is the formalized plan recognized by everyone for handling the complex project.

The central core team acts as the complex project s gearbox and focal point understanding all aspects of managing the various inter team dependencies and the landscape of the complex project. The central core team manages the overall complex project by defining managing and tracking key project milestones. The central core team is responsible for collating and summarizing status from the individual decentralized teams by use of common templates for input on a strict regular cadence. Different cadences such as weekly bi weekly monthly and bi monthly for example may be used depending upon the particular implementation.

The central core team actively manages the complex project s top high level risks by ensuring that they are fully understood and that appropriate action or mitigation plans are put in place. A mitigation plan is plan to mitigate or minimize risks and damages if a particular portion of the complex fails to operate as planned or cannot be completed in time. The central core team also keeps the transition executive team up to speed on the status of the sub projects engaging the help of the transition executive team and executive steering teams where required. The central core team is responsible for spotting hotspots that is areas or sub projects that need special handling and focus and for forming SWAT teams which are teams specifically created to handle special or urgent problems. The central core team also manages bottoms up and tops down project issue logs during the readiness and sign off phases. Bottoms up issues are those issues that are raised and worked on by a functional country or process team. Tops down issues are typically those issues that have been raised by a functional country or process team but need an executive direction or policy decision.

Teams are established to manage specific areas of the business and to report on their status for the above described activities. These teams whose leaders were part of the extended central core team fall into three categories i functional teams ii country teams and iii process teams. The extended central core team refers to a team comprised of the heads of each business function from each party or company involved in the complex project. The extended central core team reports to and assists the central core team. A business function is a particular aspect such as accounting for example of a company. Business functions may also be referred to as departments however depending upon the company structure there may be many departments that fall under on business function. For example a business function is information technologies but there may be several departments that address this business function such as for example internal help desk external customer support and research.

Functional teams are created to cover all aspects of the business from Accounting to Legal to Manufacturing and so forth. The teams include business controls with particular focus on the impact of the complex project on the 51 Sarbanes Oxley control points. Executive leads plus sub project managers are assigned from all companies involved in the complex project for each function.

Country teams are rolled up at a geographic level. There should be a country team created for each country in which any company involved in the complex project conducts business. Each of the country teams is local to the country and business unit for which they were created. However some country teams cover regions that contain several small countries. These local teams are familiar with local legal requirements and the local operating model. In addition country teams should be created to represent those countries where no employees of the companies involved are based but where the companies still do business. In the case where a new company is formed as a result of the complex project and none of the companies involved in the complex project do business in the country where the new company will be formed a country team should be formed representing this country as well. Country level GMs and CFOs are identified for each country for each company involved in the complex project.

Process teams are created to handle critical end to end processes that are defined across the end to end landscape such as establishing operations generating and executing sales executing orders servicing products and launching products. The task or job of getting each end to end processes ready by the completion date is referred to as a specific type of sub project an end to end project.

The central core team is responsible for establishing proof points and other metrics used to validate the progress of the complex project. The sub projects established by the central core team should operate under a closed loop feedback. That is the outcome of the earlier parts of the complex project serves to modify the future plans and sub projects of the rest of the complex project. In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the central core team is able to call upon additional project management support from a business consulting service and from subject matter experts from anywhere within the companies involved wherever and whenever it is required. This flexible on demand resource allows the central core team to focus its time on the critical activities of the complex project.

Along with dividing the complex project into smaller sub projects the complex project is also divided according to a set of six phases. The phases each have a definite duration and the transition between each phase is clearly defined. Each phase has a different focus which helps to advance the sub projects towards the completion of the overall complex project.

Phase 1 is the deal definition and negotiation phase. The duration of phase 1 may vary depending upon the specific complex project. However the duration will be as long as is necessary to complete phase 1. During this phase negotiations are carried out between all the companies or parties involved in the complex project. The specific nature of the complex project is likely to determine the various participants in this phase. For example a project for a merger of two companies would involve different personnel than a project for the joint development of a new technology. Regardless the objective of phase 1 is to clearly define the scope and enable legal agreements to be drawn up that reflect the discussions. This phase is led by the business teams with support provided by various subject matter experts covered by a non disclosure agreement on an as required basis. In the event of a divestiture or demerger while negotiations are underway it is important that the business simplifies itself as much as possible in order to align itself for a split. This may involve activities such as i changing sourcing on certain types of product in order to simplify the split of manufacturing operations or ii realigning support operations in order to minimize the amount of support that would need to be provided under a Transition Services Agreement TSA . Such actions suitably and timely executed enable the overall deal to be significantly simplified. Phase 1 may also involve initiating longer term transformations that would not be complete by the end of the complex project but would still enhance the perceived value of the business. The end of phase 1 is marked by the signing of the contracts and the public announcement of the deal if such an announcement is appropriate.

Phase 2 involves the initial project plan development. The duration of this phase may vary depending upon the specific complex project. For example for a merger and acquisitions project the duration might be set at four weeks. Following the deal signing and announcement the various functional group and country representatives familiarize themselves with the contractual details and work on putting in place provisional sub project plans. In particular the various functional group and country geographic representatives identify critical issues critical functional dependencies high level gating factors and a schedule for high level project milestones. Country geographic representatives may represent either an individual country or different regions or states within a single country. Phase 2 ends with the holding of a summit meeting at which all functional group and geographic area leaders run through all the plans a worldwide meeting in the case of international companies being involved in the complex project. In an exemplary implementation the summit meeting is a face to face meeting. However depending upon the particular implementation the summit meeting may be accomplished in other formats such as a phone conference a video conference or other appropriate means. The object of this session is the identification of any holes in the overall complex project plan and the identification of any need for any SWAT teams to be formed on specific subjects. This also marks the point at which the primary focus axis begins to shift from the functional view to the countries geographic view.

Phase 3 involves the development of a detailed project plan. The duration of this phase may vary depending upon the specific complex project. After the summit meeting the functional group and geographic area leaders work to identify the detailed timing requirements for the various dependencies prioritize the closure of functional tasks perform risk assessments and generate mitigation plans. Phase 3 is the phase during which the final interlocked detailed execution plans are developed key sub projects are identified and mapped out and scenario walkthroughs are conducted. These key or critical sub projects are concerned with various important or critical processes. The sub project is the project or task of getting the process ready by the completion date.

Phase 4 is the phase during which readiness is assessed. The duration of this phase may vary depending upon the specific complex project. During this phase using their own management system which is based on the principles of the present invention each functional and country team assesses its readiness to complete the complex project including a self assessment of their business controls position.

The companies involved should produce a flowchart for each of the critical projects that impact their various functional groups highlighting the changes from the current state. Critical projects are those projects that most important to the successful completion of the complex project. Typically critical projects cross various functional boundaries and therefore require a wide range of expertise and individuals to complete. At this time the functional and country teams also present the outcomes of their scenario walkthroughs. A scenario walkthrough is a step by step walkthrough of a process assuming certain input parameters for example a walkthrough of the order handling process where the order is to be shipped by air instead of by ground. Scenario walkthroughs verify the robustness of the new processes that are proposed. The output of the reviews is a status statement from each team together with a list of critical actions dependencies and mitigation plans.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the status statement is green yellow or red. A status statement of green indicates that there are no significant issues. A status statement of yellow indicates that there are issues but there are plans in place to address the issues. A status statement of red indicates a situation in which no suitable solutions to the issues have been identified that enable the business objectives to be met. In another exemplary embodiment an independent review team with a wide range of skills and experience including business controls is created during phase 4. The independent review team participates in each of the readiness reviews in order to provide a different perspective on the issues and to provide an assessment of overall sub project end to end readiness.

Phase 5 is the readiness sign off phase. This phase involves a second pass of reviews looking at team readiness and the remaining open qualifications to readiness. While the duration of the phase varies with the particular complex project involved the duration of this phase should be shorter than the previous phase. Each team is required to state its position. In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the status statement is either being Ready Ready with Qualifications or Not Ready . Ideally at this time most teams will indicate that they are either Ready or Ready with Qualifications. Ready with Qualifications is basically the same as a yellow status statement. The Ready with Qualifications statement means that the teams have achievable plans in place that enable them to be ready by the completion of the complex project yet there are critical dependencies or actions still required. The teams identify such remaining critical dependencies key actions and develop risk mitigation plans in case those actions cannot be completed in time.

The leaders of the various country and functional teams sign off with specific qualifications. As the leaders of these teams are typically high ranking executives such as Vice Presidents VPs General Managers GMs and Chief Financial Officers CFOs signing off with specific qualifications indicates that once those issues have been resolved then they are ready to operate. All the issues raised during phase 5 are centrally tracked to completion.

Phase 6 is the post project completion phase. The duration of this phase will vary depending upon the particular complex project. However the duration should be set to last as long as is necessary to complete the phase. The central core team establishes a centralized Unified Command Center UCC to handle any transitional issues that occurred during the completion of the complex project no matter what the subject. Depending upon the particular implementation the UCC may be functional for different periods of time. In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the UCC operates twenty four hours a day seven days a week. The UCC provides the various teams with a mechanism for inputting problems and having them prioritized centrally enabling them to clearly identify the issues that are local issues and the issues that are truly global in nature. In the above mentioned exemplary embodiment the UCC operates as a three shift operation polling each functional and geographic team every six hours tracking and centrally managing the issues where appropriate and issuing regular status reports to the transition executive team. The UCC is kept in place until the complex project is completed and operations have stabilized. At this point the central core team gathers any remaining non urgent issues and ensures that such issues are being handled within the existing ongoing management system. The ongoing activity is handed over to an ongoing management team that will remain in place for each party involved in the complex project for a significant time in order to manage the residual aspects of the relationship.

Each business team remains fully engaged for the duration of the complex project handling all aspects of any required negotiations or interpretation of the agreements. This serves two purposes. First this allows the other teams to focus fully on the task at hand without needing to become experts in the legal agreements. Secondly and perhaps more importantly preserving the relationships between the business teams. Hence ensuring that the two in a box team members are kept fully focused on operational issues rather than on financial issues. Two in a box refers to the concept of having the functional group leaders work directly with their counterpart from the other company involved to form a two person team. For example the head of the Human Resources function from each company involved in the complex project would work together to produce one joint report on Human Resources that would provide the status and highlight any area of disagreement.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the complex project is a merger and acquisition. In such a case for each phase the activities are further divided into three distinct views of the complex project i send and operate ii carve out and iii receive and operate. The send and operate view relates to the ability of the selling company to operate the remaining portions of its business after the end of the complex project. In some cases significant reflow and affordability challenges may be faced by the company. The status is provided by the company concerned.

The second view the carve out view is concerned with separating part of the business functions from the original company. In the case of a divestiture of companies this view refers to the portion of the business that is to be sold from the rest of business. It primarily includes identifying for carve out the detailed list of assets liabilities and employees to be transferred but also covers the management of any disputes or areas where the ongoing operational solution has not been agreed upon. The status is provided jointly by team members from all companies involved. In the case of a divestiture or merger this is the area where the project teams of both companies intersect.

The third view the receive and operate view relates to ensuring that the receiving or newly formed company is able to operate the business after the complex project is over in a manner that is in line with the expectations set during the negotiation of the deal.

As mentioned previously a large scale complex project can only be managed in a highly decentralized manner. In this environment establishing ownership early in the process and ensuring that there is true accountability for results is absolutely essential for the success of the complex project. One way to establish ownership and to ensure that true accountability exists is to put formal readiness sign offs in place for the key line executives in the functions and countries. In one exemplary embodiment of the present invention the worldwide functional group executive leader typically a VP the country executives which include the country GMs and CFOs and the sub project owners are required to sign off for each company involved in the complex project.

All owners that are going to be required to sign off should be notified of their responsibilities during phase 2. This ensures that the owners provide the required level of focus throughout. The owners are required to sign off that they have ensured a satisfactory business controls posture including Sarbanes Oxley compliance where applicable. Additionally the owners sign off that they are convinced that their in country execution is prepared and ready on all fronts. Furthermore the owners must sign off that detailed cutover plans are in place with all activities clearly defined and that appropriate backup plans are in place to ensure operational stability and to minimize any customer impact. The final sign off is that of the senior executive teams of each of the companies involved who granted formal permission for the transaction to proceed following receipt of the various other sign offs.

It should be noted that ownership and accountability is not limited to the executive levels. As described elsewhere the key to success is segmentation of the complex project into smaller sub projects and that each of the team leaders for the sub projects is also empowered and held fully accountable for results just as their team members are. Speed of execution is critically dependent upon such segmentation and delegation of authority and responsibility right down to the functional and country organizations.

Regarding complex projects of a large magnitude clarity of direction and the ability to control and clearly communicate any changes are absolutely essential to successful execution. Communication is clearly the top priority at the start of phase 2 starting off with the announcement of the deal to the public and to employees when appropriate and then continuing with the selection and briefing of the various team members brought on board at the start of phase 2 in order to execute the complex project. One way to ensure clear communication is to have clear and consistent leadership provided at all times including the consistency of message and of the individuals involved. Additionally a summary of the deal laying out at a high level the goal of the complex project such as what is being sold or developed the current view of the assets the people personnel implications and the proposed schedule should be proposed.

Each contract involved is summarized by the relevant lawyers and is distributed as appropriate to the teams. The summit meeting held at the end of phase 2 provides a key forum for communication. Various types of frameworks associated with the complex project are clearly explained. Some examples of frameworks include but are not limited to the legal structure in each country the holding company structure the business model for each country financial flows HR guidelines and legal requirements.

Extended central core team meetings are held on a regular basis. All functional group geographic area process teams and business unit representatives attend this meeting. Each area provides input for this meeting in a consistent format. Central core team interlocks are held several times per week between representatives of all the companies involved in the complex project. An interlock is a meeting with the express purpose of making sure that each company or party involved in the complex project understands the issues and concerns of the other party allowing them to jointly develop plans to address these concerns. Executive Steering Committee meetings are held by the transition executive team to update the senior executives and to ask for assistance where required. Use of a common set of base charts in these meetings ensures a very efficient management system between the executive teams.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a banner headed newsletter is used as the formal vehicle for communicating any changes to the plan of record issue resolution details of policies to be adopted etc. The banner headed newsletter is issued on an as required basis to all team members and provides for a rapid consistent formal means of communication. In another exemplary embodiment of the present invention scorecards are used extensively for status reporting on all aspects of the complex project. Using a traffic light color coding allows for rapid visual identification of the issues.

Clear and consistent use of metrics to track project progress provides for clear communications among all parties involved. As the complex project approaches various critical checkpoints the intensity of the management system is increased by initiating daily open phone line sessions where any team lead could raise any issue or ask for clarification on a particular aspect. Twenty four hour seven days a week access to the central core team is granted for the various team leaders. Daily briefings are sent to the senior executive teams on the top issues as well as the outlooks for resolution of existing and potential problems. An operations or deal command center focusing on any business issues is created. Furthermore during the go live transition the UCC publishes status updates for all the teams several times per day until the operations are stabilized.

Clear communication ensures that the teams engaged on the complex project are always pulling in the same direction and that the teams rarely become idle while waiting for a decision to be made or communicated.

It should be noted that in the midst of so much change it may be desirable to leave some aspects unchanged during the complex project. One of the most important aspects is company culture. Changing culture is a long term objective not a short term one. Keeping culture as a constant may be a key contributor to ensuring the effectiveness of communication.

Breaking the complex project into small sub projects creates a risk that the sub projects will not function end to end due to potential disconnects in the detailed assumptions made by the various teams. This risk is mitigated by taking various actions. For example the role of the central core team as the gearbox and focal point of the complex project ensures that it plays a key part in ensuring end to end effectiveness by understanding the landscape and proactively managing the risks. Additionally process and business scenario walkthroughs are conducted within each country for each major sub project covering operations IT and business controls. Identifying owners for the key end to end projects and requiring them to sign off on their readiness as part of the overall review process helps to mitigate the risk. Another way to mitigate the risk is to require country GMs and CFOs to sign off that the sub projects have been completed to their satisfaction and that the processes underlying the sub projects will operate in their respective country meeting all customer and business control requirements.

Independent review teams engage in all readiness reviews. These teams are extremely experienced and have expert knowledge of the various end to end sub projects including experience with business controls and previous similar complex projects. Establishing appropriate metrics and proof points in order to closely monitor end to end effectiveness once the complex project is completed helps to mitigate the risk as well.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the business units of each company involved in the complex project have teams in place specifically to ensure that their part of the business will operate properly once the complex project is complete. These teams verify the end to end functionality for their own portions of the landscape.

Problems comprises three columns. The titles of the columns are Function Item and Action. The Function column lists the function that is experiencing a problem. The Item column contains a summary of all the troubled areas experienced by the function listed in the Function column. The Action column contains a summary of the action to be taken to mitigate or correct the problem listed in the Item column.

Problems comprises three areas. The titles of the three areas are Common concerns raised in the reviews Geo unique concerns and Geo country sign offs scheduled. The Common concerns raised in the reviews section lists concerns or problems that are common to all the countries. The Geo unique concerns area contains a summary of all the problems faced by the individual countries or regions grouped by region. The Geo country sign offs scheduled is a listing of the sign off dates broken down by region.

Each of these critical processes forms a row with eighteen entries or columns. The column headings are the titles of the various functional groups within the company. Therefore the number and titles of the column headings will vary with the particular implementation. For each critical process an entry is made in each column indicating whether that particular function is involved in the critical process. For example the Establish Legal Entity critical process has X s in the Tax Structure HR Legal Treasury Accounting Finance Environmental and Communication functions columns indicating that those functions are involved in the critical process of establishing a legal entity.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the cells of the matrix also indicate the current status of that piece of the sub project. If the initials appear to be in normal font as illustrated by element then the status is green or ready. If the initials are in a bold font as illustrated by element then the status is yellow. If the initials are in bold and the cell is highlighted as illustrated by element then the status is red. Of course one skilled in the art will recognize that there are many ways that status can be indicated and the example above is only given for the purpose of explanation and is not meant in any way to limit the scope of the invention.

In the case where the project is a merger and acquisition project Central core team meets with Transition Executive to apprise them of the current status of the various projects. Transition Executive typically comprises a transition executive from each of Company A and Company B . The transition executive of Transition Executive for Company B meets with Company B Executive Steering Committee and the transition executive of Transition Executive for Company A meets with Company A Executive Steering Committee preferably on a weekly basis to apprise them of the current status of the various projects. These steering committees set high level policies for their respective companies. Company A and Company B Business teams and meet with Central core team and with each other. Company A and Company B Business teams and help to resolve any disagreements between the other various teams and typically negotiate with each other to reach an agreement on the issue at hand. The decision is forwarded on to Central core team which then forwards the decision to the appropriate groups with Company A and Company B .

The operation receives input regarding which business functions are affected by each critical project out of the plurality of sub projects step . Functional teams are responsible for supplying this input. The operation receives input regarding the status of each of the business functions in relation to each critical project within the plurality of sub projects step . In an exemplary implementation an executive is responsible for the status of each of the business functions in relation to each critical project within the plurality of sub projects. Next the operation identifies concerns or problems common to all geographic regions as well as the concerns that are unique to each geographic region step and subsequently establishes mitigation plans and handles each business function at a local level step and the operation ends.

The invention can take the form of an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any tangible apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

