---

title: Automated account mapping in a wireless subscriber billing system
abstract: Systems and methods for automated account mapping in a wireless subscriber billing system are disclosed. An external ID associated with a wireless client device is captured from a billable event communicated between a wireless client device and a wireless subscriber billing system. Then, the external ID is associated with a Subscriber ID (SID) used to communicate a billing request to an operator billing system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09185234&OS=09185234&RS=09185234
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09185234
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060222
---
The present invention generally relates to wireless subscriber billing systems and more specifically to automated account mapping for an external purchase charged to the wireless subscriber.

Advances in technology have resulted in smaller and more powerful personal computing devices. For example there currently exist a variety of portable personal computing devices including laptops wireless computing devices such as portable wireless telephones personal digital assistants PDAs and paging devices that are each small lightweight and can be easily carried by users. A wireless device is any device that can communicate with other devices without being physically attached to them. Most wireless devices communicate with each other through radio frequencies.

More specifically the portable wireless telephones for example further include cellular telephones that communicate voice and data packets over wireless networks. Further many such cellular telephones are being manufactured with relatively large increases in computing capabilities and as such are becoming tantamount to small personal computers and hand held PDAs. However these smaller and more powerful personal computing devices are typically severely resource constrained. For example the screen size amount of available memory and file system space amount of input and output capabilities e.g. size of keypad and display and processing capability may each be limited by the small size of the device. Because of such severe resource constraints it is often typically desirable for example to maintain a limited size and quantity of software applications and other information residing on such remote personal computing devices client devices .

Some of the personal computing devices utilize an application programming interface API or application programming interfaces APIs sometimes referred to as runtime environments and software platforms that are installed onto their local computer platform and which are used for example to simplify operations of such devices such as by providing generalized calls for device specific resources. Generally an API can be considered a set of routines used by an application program to direct the performance of procedures by the computer s operating system.

Further some such APIs are also known to provide software developers the ability to create software applications that are fully executable on such devices. In addition some APIs are known to provide mechanisms for secure communications between such personal devices i.e. clients and remote devices i.e. servers using secure cryptographic information.

Examples of such APIs include versions of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless software BREW developed by QUALCOMM Inc. of San Diego Calif. BREW can cooperate with a computing device s e.g. a wireless cellular phone operating system and can among other features provide interfaces to hardware features particularly found on computing devices. BREW can also provide these interfaces on such computing devices at a relatively low cost with respect to demands on device resources and with respect to the price paid by consumers for devices containing BREW . Additional features of BREW include its end to end software distribution platform that provides a variety of benefits for wireless service operators software developers and computing device consumers. At least one such currently available end to end software distribution platform includes logic distributed over a server client architecture where the server performs for example billing security and application distribution functionality and the client performs for example application execution security and user interface functionality.

In conventional wireless systems a wireless client device can obtain these additional services application and or content from one or more servers. Typically a server that controls billing will associate a specific Subscriber Identification SID to the transaction so that the transaction can be billed to the appropriate account. The SID may not be any number known to the subscriber and therefore may not be usable outside the wireless client device to server transaction environment. Accordingly this limits the ability for wireless subscribers to use their established accounts for purchases other than those hosted by their carrier operators.

The foregoing description of the related art is merely intended to provide an overview of some of the billing related processes in wireless subscriber systems and as an introduction to the BREW platform which can be used in embodiments of the invention. However the invention is not to be construed as being limited to a specific implementation operating platform or environment.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed to a system and method for automated account mapping in a wireless subscriber billing system.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a method comprising capturing an external ID associated with a wireless client device from a billable event communicated between the wireless client device and a wireless subscriber billing system and associating the external ID with a Subscriber ID SID used to communicate a billing request to an operator billing system.

Another embodiment of the invention includes an apparatus comprising logic configured to capture an external ID associated with a wireless client device from a billable event communicated between the wireless client device and a wireless subscriber billing system and logic configured to associate the external ID with a Subscriber ID SID used to communicate a billing request to an operator billing system.

Another embodiment of the invention includes a computer readable medium on which is stored a computer program for automated account mapping in a wireless subscriber billing system the computer program comprising instructions which upon being executed causes the computing device to perform a process of capturing an external ID associated with a wireless client device from a billable event communicated between the wireless client device and a wireless subscriber billing system associating the external ID with a Subscriber ID SID used to communicate a billing request to an operator billing system receiving the billing request from an external billing source at the wireless subscriber billing system and mapping the external ID contained in the billing request to the subscriber ID SID .

Another embodiment of the invention includes a server comprising means for capturing an external ID associated with a wireless client device from a billable event communicated between the wireless client device and a wireless subscriber billing system means for associating the external ID with a Subscriber ID SID used to communicate a billing request to an operator billing system means for receiving the billing request from an external billing source at the wireless subscriber billing system and means for mapping the external ID contained in the billing request to the subscriber ID SID .

Embodiments of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the terms embodiments or embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. Also those skilled in the art will appreciate that action sequences method steps and functions can be interchanged without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

One or more embodiments of the invention may be used in conjunction with a runtime environment or platform executing on the computing device. One such runtime environment is the BREW software previously discussed. However one or more embodiments of the invention may be used with other types of runtime environments that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless client computing devices.

Additionally it will be recognized to those skilled in the art that an application file type being distributed and executed may be describe herein for simplicity of description. However an application may also include files having executable content such as object code scripts java file a bookmark file or PQA file WML scripts byte code and perl scripts. In addition an application referred to herein may also include files that are not executable in nature such as documents that may need to be opened or other data files that need to be accessed.

The application download server ADS is shown here on a network with other computer elements in communication with the wireless network . There can be a stand alone billing server and each server can provide separate services and processes to the client devices across the wireless network . There may also be at least one stored application database that holds the software applications and content which are downloadable by the wireless devices . However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the configuration illustrated in is merely exemplary. Accordingly embodiments of the invention can include one or more servers that can each perform all the described functions and contain all necessary hardware and software or can contain only selected functionality. Further not all of the elements e.g. pager ADS database etc. illustrated are necessarily used in all the different embodiments of the invention.

In a block diagram is shown that more fully illustrates system including the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote client devices such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. The application download server and the stored application database along with any other servers such as billing server which can be used to provide cellular telecommunication services communicate with a carrier network through a data link such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. The application download server server and the stored application database are illustrated as independent devices in this embodiment. However these devices can also be integrated into one common server or the functionality of one or more may be distributed over multiple devices as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.

The carrier network controls messages typically sent as data packets to a mobile switching center or messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the PSTN connection to the MSC transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to multiple base stations BTS . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the BTS by a network the Internet and or PSTN to communicate data and or voice information. The BTS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the client devices such as cellular telephone by short messaging service SMS or other over the air OTA methods known in the art.

The client device here a wireless client computing device such as cellular telephone may have a computer platform that can receive and execute software applications or content and or commands transmitted from the application download server and or server . The computer platform can include an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform also includes a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk and the like.

The wireless client computing device such as cellular telephone can have installed on it or otherwise downloads one or more software applications such as games news stock monitors and the like. For example the cellular telephone may receive one or more software applications and or content downloaded from the download server . The software applications and content may be stored on the local database when not in use. The cellular telephone or other wireless computing device may upload resident applications stored on the local database to memory for execution on the API when so desired by the user or invoked by another API. These download transactions are typically reported or obtained by a billing system that can generate the appropriate charges to the user of the client device among other activities discussed in greater detail below.

As used herein client device wireless device client computing device and like variations includes for example one or more processing circuits executing resident configured logic where such computing devices include for example microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs microcontrollers portable wireless telephones personal digital assistants PDAs and paging devices or any suitable combination of hardware software and or firmware containing processors and logic configured to at least perform the operations described herein. The client device can be serviced by at least one remote server as discussed herein. Some examples of client devices which may be used in accordance with embodiments of the present invention include cellular telephones or other wireless communication units PDAs paging devices handheld navigation devices handheld gaming devices music or video content download units and other like wireless communication devices.

The wireless communication between the client device and the BTS can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA the global system for mobile communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device BTS and MSC . The MSC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the client device access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing in addition to voice transmission data can be transmitted to the client device via SMS or other OTA methods known in the art.

Referring to a client device is illustrated that includes an application e.g. a BREW application that includes the ability to securely communicate via a wireless network to the billing server billing system . As discussed above an ADS may function as a gateway to the billing server billing system or other server may operate in this function. Accordingly the embodiment illustrated in is merely for illustrative purposes and should not be construed to limit the invention.

In addition to security functions the communication between client device and billing server includes verification and identification logic to identify the client device and associate it with an internal account number or Subscriber Identification SID that is used to associate the client device with a wireless subscriber s account by an operator billing system as is known in the art. The SID typically is not related to the numbers easily ascertained from the client device such as the mobile directory number MDN or mobile identification number MIN . Further the SID can be any agreed upon code between the billing server and the operator billing system that typically generates a bill to the subscriber. For example a SID may be a fourteen digit number and may represent a variant of the MIN or the IMSI e.g. 310006199772376 . However the invention is not limited to this format and the SID may be any agreed upon format such as an identification code containing numbers characters and or symbols and the like.

An authentication feature can be included in the SVB that can verify the identity of the external billing source that is accessing the SVB module . For example a digital certificate can be issued to the trusted service. The certificate will be associated with the carrier operator and the trusted service e.g. retail merchant for validation. The external billing source can digitally sign each transaction to the SVB using the issued certificate. The digital signature and the digital certificate can be included in each request. The SVB can then authenticate the signature on each billing request. For example the SVB can be a web based interface and the connection to the SVB can be via the Internet using an HTTPS protocol in the external billing source authentication. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention is not limited to an internet connection and an HTTPS protocol and any combination of wired and or wireless connection and suitable security authentication system can be used to communicate the billing requests from the external billing source .

Accordingly the wireless subscriber billing system can receive a billing request from the external billing source that is external to the carrier network. However since the SVB based billing events from the external billing source are not directly generated within the carrier network or from the subscriber s client device typically an external ID will be associated with the transaction that is not the SID used between the billing server and the operating billing system . Further for security confidentiality and other reasons the SID may not be made available outside the billing server to operator billing system communications. Accordingly the external ID has to be mapped to the SID in order for the billing system to communicate the billing request to the operator billing system .

A SID map database can be used by the billing system e.g. SVB billing server or other logic module to uniquely identify the subscriber. For example a subscriber could use their Mobile Directory Number MDN e.g. the dialable phone number mobile identification number MIN mobile station identity MSID international mobile station identity IMSI or other assigned unique number that can be associated with the wireless subscriber and or client device. The MDN or other unique number can be transmitted with the billing request to the SVB . The SID map logic can then access the SID map database and replace the MDN or associate the MDN with the unique SID used in the billing system for processing the billing requests and transactions with the operator billing system.

However populating the SID database could be a labor intensive task given the millions of wireless client devices in use. Further not all wireless devices may be enabled for external purchases. Accordingly SID map logic can be used to automatically capture an external ID associated with the client device . The SID map logic can further have the ability to determine the internal account number e.g. SID by using a heuristic that uses data obtained e.g. the external ID from the billing transaction between the wireless device and the billing system . The SID map logic can accept a variety of identification information e.g. MDN MIN MSID IMSI and the like for transactions generated by the external billing source and maps these data to an internal account number SID using data derived from a prior billing transaction between the wireless client device and the billing system .

For example during a billable event where the client device communicates with billing server and billing system to download an application and or content from the wireless carrier network a billing transaction is generated. Typically as part of the communication between the wireless client device and billing system identification data may be transmitted to the billing system for authentication and security purposes. For example as part of the communication during the billable event the client device may include its MDN MIN and other such identification information. Accordingly the SID logic map can capture this external ID information and associate it with the SID which is communicated to the operator billing system. The SID map database can store these associated IDs and can also be accessed to determine if an entry has already been made for a particular client device so that redundant data is not stored.

If the wireless device is no longer valid e.g. closed transferred account etc. on an operator system the operator may provide a notice e.g. a provisioning file to notify when the SID has been de activated or transferred. This allows the system to mark the records in the SID mapping as inactive and when a SID is seen next e.g. some time later when it s been reassigned to a new customer the SID mapping can create a new active record with the SID and it s associated IDs that relate to the wireless device.

Additionally it may be possible for a SID to map to more than one device e.g. a common account is used for several wireless devices . In this case the system can track the SID and one or more other associated IDs in combination for each unique device. For example the external ID can be used in combination with the SID that is retrieve and both can be communicated to the operator billing system to bill the appropriate account and provide additional reporting detail.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments of the invention can include an apparatus in accordance with the foregoing description. For example an embodiment of the invention can include an apparatus including logic configured to capture an external ID associated with a wireless client device from a billable event communicated between a wireless client device and a wireless subscriber billing system and logic configured to associate the external ID with a subscriber ID SID used to communicate a billing request to an operator billing system e.g. SID Map logic . Also the apparatus can include a storage medium e.g. configured to store the associated external ID and SID.

The apparatus can further include logic e.g. SVB configured to receive a billing request from an external billing source at the wireless subscriber billing system and logic e.g. configured to map the external ID contained in the billing request to the subscriber ID SID . Additionally the apparatus can further include logic e.g. billing server configured to communicate the billing request to the operator billing system.

Further in embodiments of the invention the wireless subscriber billing system can be hosted by a third party that is separate from the operator and external billing source. For example a wireless subscriber billing system can be configured such as QUALCOMM s BREW Billing and Distribution System BDS that can distribute applications and content to client devices generate billing information to the operator billing system and provide settlement services for the application and content providers. Using aspects of embodiments of the invention the BDS can further be enhanced to allow external billing sources to access the billing system and using an external ID to communicate the appropriate billing information to the operator billing systems. Accordingly the wireless subscriber billing system can be enhanced to process transactions external to the wireless operator carrier network allowing a wireless subscriber a broader usage of their wireless account.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments of the invention can include methods for performing the activities functions and or steps described herein. For example referring to a flowchart illustrating a method according to at least one embodiment of the present invention is illustrated. An external ID associated with a wireless client device is captured from a billable event communicated between a wireless client device and a wireless subscriber billing system block . The external ID is associated with a Subscriber ID SID used to communicate a billing request to an operator billing system block .

For example a BREW download billing acknowledgment message event may contain all the IDs that are associated with the client device and which can be recorded in the SID map. This data may be added to the headers of the message by the underlying Brew operating environment or in the case of a non BREW environment buy by the gateway infrastructure . Accordingly the sending application e.g on the client device does not need to know of or have any control over the header values.

Alternatively on a BREW client there can be specific API calls e.g. IBilling IDownload and the like that are invoked to create a billing event and communicate the IDs. In a non Brew environment the values can be added by the operator s gateway infrastructure or in the negotiations between the client device and the gateway or by a program resident on the client device. These examples are provided for illustration only. Accordingly embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific platform or data communication format and can include any system that can capture and associate the SID information automatically with respect to a billable download event.

After the association is made the billing system can process external billing requests using the external ID. For example a billing request can be received from an external billing source at the wireless subscriber billing system and the external ID contained in the billing request can be mapped to the subscriber ID SID block . The billing request can be communicated to the operator billing system block . Accordingly an external ID such as the MDN of the client device can be used to purchase an item from an external billing source e.g. retail store website and the like and the MDN e.g. external ID can be transmitted along with the other billing information e.g. purchased item description purchase amount and the like to the billing system. The external ID can be associated with the SID internal account number then the transaction can be communicated using the SID to the operator billing system which will then generate the appropriate billing to the wireless subscriber.

As previously discussed to promote security of the transaction between the external billing source and the billing system the billing request can be digitally signed at the external billing source prior to transmitting the billing request. Additional security verification and authorization procedures can be defined by the system designer to prevent fraud based on the system design and or policies of the operator as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art and all these variations are contemplated to be within the scope of the present invention. Likewise the external ID and internal account number e.g. SID may be defined as needed by the system designers and is not limited to a mobile directory number MDN mobile identification number MIN mobile station identity MSID and or international mobile station identity IMSI . Further more than one of the external IDs may be used and be associated with the SID. For example both the MDN and the MIN may be captured and associated with the SID and one or both may be required for processing the billing requests from the external billing source. The associated external ID s and SID can be stored in a storage medium for ease of retrieval and organization as discussed in the foregoing.

In further embodiments those skilled in the art will appreciate that the foregoing methods can be implemented by the execution of a program embodied on a computer readable medium such as the memory of a computer platform. The instructions can reside in various types of signal bearing or data storage primary secondary or tertiary media. The media may comprise for example RAM accessible by or residing within the client device and or server. Whether contained in RAM a diskette or other secondary storage media the instructions may be stored on a variety of machine readable data storage media such as DASD storage e.g. a conventional hard drive or a RAID array magnetic tape electronic read only memory e.g. ROM or EEPROM flash memory cards an optical storage device e.g. CD ROM WORM DVD digital optical tape paper punch cards or other suitable data storage media including digital and analog transmission media.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable medium on which is stored a computer program for automated account mapping in a wireless subscriber billing system. The computer program comprising instructions which when executed causes the computing device which can include multiple computing devices to perform the process of capturing an external ID associated with a wireless client device from a billable event communicated between a wireless client device and a wireless subscriber billing system and associating the external ID with a Subscriber ID SID used to communicate a billing request to an operator billing system.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Additionally the illustrated embodiments show separation of block elements merely for convenience of illustration and the functionalities of the various elements may be separated or integrated as desired. For example all the elements of billing system can be integrated into one common device or may be distributed over several servers each in communication with each other. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of embodiments of the present invention.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Accordingly the foregoing description should not be interpreted to limit the scope of the invention which is defined by the appended claims and the equivalents thereof.

