---

title: Method for economic valuation in seismic to simulation workflows
abstract: A method is disclosed for performing economic calculations in petro-technical workflows, comprising: designing an economic model including, building and running an economic calculation, the building and running step including, opening an economics dialog box, clicking an economics calculation tab in the economics dialog box, clicking a settings tab in the economics dialog box and configuring a set of settings for the economic calculation, and clicking a run button in the economics dialog box to perform the economic calculation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07778859&OS=07778859&RS=07778859
owner: Schlumberger Technology Corporation
number: 07778859
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060828
---
The subject matter disclosed in this specification relates to a method and a corresponding system and computer program and program storage device practiced by a software adapted to be stored in a workstation or other computer system for economic valuation in seismic to simulation workflows and in particular a method for economic evaluation of prospective oil or gas field reservoirs using production forecasts and full development and operational costs

Currently the process of economic evaluation of prospective reservoir prospects is either absent or complex. This specification discloses an economic evaluation tool represented by a software adapted to be stored in a workstation or other computer system which provides an integrated and simple way of calculating and displaying economic indicators in connection with the development of the prospective reservoir prospect in response to a given set of costs and other production data associated with the prospective reservoir prospect.

One aspect of the present invention involves a method for performing economic calculations in petro technical workflows comprising designing an economic model including building and running an economic calculation the building and running step including opening an economics dialog box clicking an economics calculation tab in the economics dialog box clicking a settings tab in the economics dialog box and configuring a set of setting for the economic calculation and clicking a run button in the economics dialog box to perform the economic calculation.

Another aspect of the present invention involves a program storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying a set of instructions executable by the machine to perform method steps for performing economic calculations in petro technical workflows the method steps comprising designing an economic model including building and running an economic calculation the building and running step including opening an economics dialog box clicking an economics calculation tab in the economics dialog box clicking a settings tab in the economics dialog box and configuring a set of setting for the economic calculation and clicking a run button in the economics dialog box to perform the economic calculation.

Another aspect of the present invention involves a computer program adapted to be executed by a processor the computer program when executed by the processor conducting a process for performing economic calculations in petro technical workflows the process comprising designing an economic model including building and running an economic calculation the building and running step including opening an economics dialog box clicking an economics calculation tab in the economics dialog box clicking a settings tab in the economics dialog box and configuring a set of setting for the economic calculation and clicking a run button in the economics dialog box to perform the economic calculation.

Another aspect of the present invention involves a system adapted for performing economic calculations in petro technical workflows comprising apparatus adapted for designing an economic model including apparatus adapted for building and running an economic calculation the apparatus adapted for building and running an economic calculation including apparatus adapted for opening an economics dialog box apparatus adapted for receiving a click on an economics calculation tab in the economics dialog box apparatus adapted for receiving a click on a settings tab in the economics dialog box and configuring a set of settings for the economic calculation and apparatus adapted for receiving a click on a run button in the economics dialog box to perform the economic calculation.

Further scope of applicability will become apparent from the detailed description presented hereinafter. It should be understood however that the detailed description and the specific examples set forth below are given by way of illustration only since various changes and modifications within the spirit and scope of the Software for performing economic calculations in Petro Technical workflows as described and claimed in this specification will become obvious to one skilled in the art from a reading of the following detailed description.

There is a growing demand in the industry to bring economic evaluations earlier into the decision making process that is to perform economic screening of reservoir simulation production results. However the current practice including carrying out the majority of the technical work based on volumes and engineering designs thereby generating a set of results and then sending the set of results to a planner economist for independent economic evaluation could potentially lead to missed value. In other words the current process of economic evaluation of prospective reservoir prospects is either absent complex or late in the cycle

As a result this specification discloses an economic evaluation tool represented by a software adapted to be stored in a workstation or other computer system that provides an integrated and simple way of calculating and displaying economic indicators in connection with the development of a prospective reservoir prospect in response to a given set of costs and other production data associated with the prospective reservoir prospect.

Referring initially to the current leading petroleum project economics tool referred to as the Petroleum Economics Evaluation Product or PEEP which is owned and operated by Schlumberger Technology Corporation of Houston Tex. is not designed specifically to provide an economic screening of reservoir simulation results . However due to the openness of the PEEP product a tailored Graphical User Interface GUI can be designed and used as a front end to drive the Petroleum Economics Evaluation Product PEEP in the required manner which would thereby enable the PEEP product to provide the aforementioned economic screening of reservoir simulation results . This adaptation of the Graphical User Interface GUI of the Petroleum Economics Evaluation Product PEEP to provide the required economic screening of reservoir simulation results can then produce a light weight and easy to use tool that integrates well with technical applications. As a result of this solution a tight workflow integration can be achieved between petro technical applications and a product suite such as the E P Technical Processes of which can then be used for corporate planning and reserves such as the E P Business Management Processes of while using PEEP models and expert data or simple prepackaged models. In addition a set of computed Net Present Value NPV cases can then be used in Capital Planning for portfolio analysis and ranking . In short economic evaluation represented by Economics in becomes the missing link between petro technical workflows represented by E P Technical Processes of and business valuation workflows represented by E P Business Management Processes of . As a result illustrates the fact that economic evaluation can represent a link between a set of petro technical workflows and business valuation workflows a topic which will be discussed in greater detail in this specification with reference to of the drawings. In the petro technical workflows can include seismic modeling simulation drilling and production .

Referring to a workstation or other computer system is illustrated which stores a Software for performing economic calculations in Petro Technical workflows that provides an integrated and simple way of calculating and displaying economic indicators in connection with the development of a prospective reservoir prospect in response to a given set of costs and other production data associated with the prospective reservoir prospect.

In a workstation personal computer or other computer system is illustrated adapted for storing a Software for performing economic calculations in Petro Technical workflows . The computer system of includes a Processor operatively connected to a system bus a memory or other program storage device operatively connected to the system bus and a recorder or display device operatively connected to the system bus . The memory or other program storage device stores the Software for performing economic calculations in Petro Technical workflows adapted for performing economic calculations in Petro Technical workflows in order to provide an integrated and simple way of calculating and displaying economic indicators in connection with the development of a prospective reservoir prospect in response to a given set of costs and other production data associated with the prospective reservoir prospect. The Software for performing economic calculations in Petro Technical workflows which is stored in the memory of can be initially stored on a Hard Disk or CD Rom where the Hard Disk or CD Rom is also a program storage device . The CD Rom can be inserted into the computer system and the Software for performing economic calculations in Petro Technical workflows can be loaded from the CD Rom and into the memory program storage device of the computer system of . The Processor will execute the Software for performing economic calculations in Petro Technical workflows that is stored in memory of and responsive thereto the Processor will generate one or more output displays on a Display Screen that are recorded or displayed on the Recorder or Display device of . The output displays which are recorded on or displayed on the Display Screen of the Recorder or Display device of are illustrated in of the drawings which will be discussed later in this specification. Recall that the output displays recorded or displayed on the Display Screen of the Recorder or Display device of as shown in are adapted for performing economic calculations in Petro Technical workflows in order to provide an integrated and simple way of calculating and displaying economic indicators in connection with the development of a prospective reservoir prospect in response to a given set of costs and other production data associated with the prospective reservoir prospect as discussed in this specification.

The computer system of may be a personal computer PC a workstation a microprocessor or a mainframe. Examples of possible workstations include a Silicon Graphics Indigo 2 workstation or a Sun SPARC workstation or a Sun ULTRA workstation or a Sun BLADE workstation. The memory or program storage device including the above referenced Hard Disk or CD Rom is a computer readable medium or a program storage device which is readable by a machine such as the processor . The processor may be for example a microprocessor microcontroller or a mainframe or workstation processor. The memory or program storage device which stores the Software for performing economic calculations in Petro Technical workflows may be for example a hard disk ROM CD ROM DRAM or other RAM flash memory magnetic storage optical storage registers or other volatile and or non volatile memory.

Referring to the computer system of is illustrated again in . In the computer system includes a monitor which represents the recorder or display device in a processor a keyboard and a mouse . One or more window displays will be displayed on the display screen of the monitor of the computer system in when the Software for performing economic calculations in Petro Technical workflows stored in the memory of the computer system of is executed by the processor of . A user operator of the workstation of can use the mouse to click on certain tabs in the window displays in order to generate and display other such window displays for the ultimate purpose of performing economic calculations in Petro technical workflows in order to provide a method for calculating and displaying economic indicators in connection with the development of a prospective reservoir prospect in response to a given set of costs and other production data associated with the prospective reservoir prospect as discussed in this specification.

In the window displays which are generated and displayed on the display screen of the monitor of the workstation or other computer system of in response to the execution of the Software for performing economic calculations in Petro Technical workflows by the processor of will be discussed in greater detail below with reference to of the drawings.

Any decision an Exploration and Production E P company makes is an integrated process that involves economics planning finance and risk management. Therefore an understanding of how the technical decisions made might impact the business goals is important. An economic evaluation is done to justify a decision that will demand a capital expenditure drilling new wells equipment purchases like compressors workovers or impact operational costs. Additionally short term monthly economic goals need to be balanced with the longer term 3 5 year financial objectives of the company. Ultimately management also uses economic evaluations for corporate budgeting government and investor reporting and valuations of oil and gas properties. Uncertainty and risk both play huge roles in any E P company s decision making. Economic uncertainties e.g. in oil prices have to be taken into account which can have a significant impact on the economics of any project.

In this specification discloses a Software for performing economic calculations in petro technical workflows that practices a method which enables geoscientists and engineers to obtain the basic knowledge that is needed for performing investment analysis . As a result of the Software of the geoscientists and engineers should be able to understand the concepts and calculations that are required for an exploration or reservoir field development project.

We can divide investment and economic analysis into two main areas 1 cash flow analysis and 2 economic decision measures.

A basic cash flow receives a production estimate and applies price to calculate a revenue stream . From this revenue stream we subtract royalties and operating expenses to achieve an operating income . Capital is then removed to create a Before Tax Cash Flow BTCF . Income taxes are then calculated and the After Tax Cash Flow ATCF is created. Revenue Volume Price Operating Income Revenue Royalty Opcosts BTCF Operating Income Capital Taxable Income Operating Income ATCF BTCF Taxes Payable Where BTCF Before Tax Cash Flow ATCF After Tax Cash Flow DD A Depreciation depletion and amortization Fluid Volume

A series of fluid volumes at given time intervals months years can be obtained from either the ECLIPSE or FrontSim reservoir simulators which are owned and operated by Schlumberger Technology Corporation. These fluid volumes can be oil water gas or natural gas liquids NGL production or water and gas injection values.

Price is the monetary value received for each barrel of oil or cubic foot of gas produced and sold. Secondary by products i.e. Natural Gas Liquids NGLs may also be sold from some reservoirs. Prices may be kept at a constant value or escalated over time. Escalations are predictions of how the price will change based on market conditions. The quality of the hydrocarbon being sold API density absence of impurities like H2S etc. can also affect the product price.

Royalty is value deducted from the revenue stream which usually has no obligation toward covering expenses. It is considered to come off the top after product quality adjustments but before operating costs or investments are deducted. Many different formulas are used for the calculation of royalties which are dependent on the fiscal regime of a particular region.

Operating expenses are the day to day costs of operating a property and maintaining production. Typical charges would include fluid processing costs lease electricity chemicals water disposal and overhead. They are normally deductible for income tax purposes.

Capital consists of investments for drilling exploration equipment and facilities. Usually broken down into Tangible and Intangible categories they are considered spent in the scheduled year for the Before Tax Cash Flow and recovered over time for the After Tax Cash Flow. Tangible investments are equipment purchases such as pumping units pipelines compressors and buildings. They often have salvage value. Intangible investments are drilling fees mud and chemicals logging and other non equipment charges. They typically have no salvage value. Costs to abandon an area or location are sometimes grouped with capital investments. Spent at the end of the life of a project they may be offset by any recoverable equipment sold as salvage.

Once an Operating Income has been established income taxes should be calculated. It is at this point that tangible assets are depreciated over time reducing the income stream available to be taxed. The tax rate is applied to Taxable Income taxes are subtracted and the After Tax Cash Flow is created.

An Economics process is used to create edit or use an economic model that can in turn be used to compute Economic Indicators . Economic Indicators can be computed for the simulation cases listed in a Cases tree and the results are added to the Results tree . Economic Valuations can be performed for single wells groups or fields by selecting the appropriate identifier from the Results tree and dragging it onto the Domains box on the Economic Calculation tab in the Merak Economics dialog box . In a typical economic run wells groups and fields can be combined together. The data for all valid domain items are added together for each simulation in the run. The Merak Economics Process automatically obtains the capital expenditure profile from the simulations for development or infill drilling and workovers if these options have been used.

Referring to when performing economic calculations it is strongly recommended to request the ECLIPSE or FrontSim simulations to output additional data used to enhance the economic calculations. To do this in open the Simulation node on the Process tree and then double click the Define Simulation Case node to open the Define Simulation Case dialog box in . Click the Results tab and then select the Economics check box in the Line Graphs option group in .

In when the Economics check box is selected run an economic calculation by clicking on the run button in . In response thereto the simulator i.e. the Software for performing economic calculations in petro technical workflows will output the following summary vectors 

This part of the specification describes how to build and run an economic calculation . An economic calculation run can be set up from the Simulation node in a Process Diagram tree described here or from within the Workflow Editor .

In when the economic calculation has been set up as desired by performing steps 1 through 6 above perform one of the following steps as shown in as follows 

Referring to use the Economic Calculation tab of the Merak Economics dialog box to define the basic parameters of your calculation including the economic model that will be used for the calculation the wells groups or field for which the calculation will be performed and the simulations whose data will be used as inputs for the run.

In when the Merak Economics dialog box is opened the last used run is automatically loaded and the settings from that run will populate the Economic Calculation tab the Settings tab and the Mapping tab . This enables an operator to create a new run that is similar to a previously created run by selecting the run upon which you want to base your new run changing it as desired and then creating a new run based on your changes.

Referring to in this case the user has set up an economic run to perform calculations for nine wells using data from an ECLIPSE simulation an ECLIPSE simulation and a calculation. The term ECLIPSE refers to a simulator that is owned and operated by Schlumberger Technology Corporation.

Referring to and when performing economic calculations after selecting an economic model you can view or edit the contents of that model create a new economic model or delete a previously created model.

To perform any of these operations click the Edit Create button on the Economic Calculation tab of the Merak Economics dialog box to open the Merak Economics Plug in dialog box as shown in .

In use the Settings tab of the Merak Economics dialog box to configure the settings for your economic calculation. This includes defining the start date of your calculations choosing how drilling costs will be defined setting up Peep Export file parameters if desired and choosing the data sampling frequency for your simulation.

In each simulation has its own start date and each data set also has its own start date. The Date Setting option group can be used to define the date from which you want data passed for an economic run there are two options 

Normally drilling costs come from the economic model and these are defined on the Capital Cost tab of of the Merak Economics Plug in dialog box . One can override these drilling costs if desired and replace them with other costs from the Osprey Risk Plug in or replace them with an average cost that can be defined.

In in order to override these drilling costs select the Override Economic Model s drilling cost check box in and then 

When the Merak Economics Process is run from the Workflow Editor a variable name can be entered that was previously defined in the workflow as your Average Drilling Cost value. The Merak Economics Process will then look for the value associated with that variable and use it in the calculation. See the Using the Merak Economics process within the Workflow Editor section below for more information.

How to Send Results of an Economic Run to a Petroleum Economics Evaluation Product Peep Export PEX File 

In select the Peep Export check box and then specify the path and name of the Peep Export .pex file into which you want to add the economic run. The Merak Economics Process will create the Peep Export file which you can then import into Merak Peep for analysis. In addition Peep Export files generated from Merak Peep can be imported back into the Merak Economics Process.

In working in the Data Sampling Frequency option group select one of the option buttons to define the frequency at which input data is sampled from simulations. If the sample frequency is larger than the frequency of input data then the result will be less accurate.

Referring to some by products are frequently recovered as part of field operations. Examples of these include Natural Gas Liquids NGLs and condensate. It is common practice to establish the volume of NGLs recovered by applying various empirical formulae using the Dynamic Data Calculator. The results of these calculations may then be used on the Mapping tab of to account for the economics associated with NGLs.

If desired the outputs from production streams that you will use to represent Ethane Propane and Butane can be specified. This process is optional and is only required if NGLs are present in your recovery stream.

Referring to after running an economic calculation the results are stored in the Economic Indicator and Economic Profile folders in the Results tree .

The Economics Process can be used inside the Workflow Editor to automate the generation of economic results. In addition it provides facilities for maintaining an audit trail to understand who did what when and how. It also forms the basis as to how uncertainty in economic parameters e.g. drilling capital costs or oil price can be modeled efficiently. The following examples illustrate the use of the Economics Process in the Workflow Editor .

Referring to this example shows how to generate an economic run for every case within a folder e.g. after running an Uncertainty Workflow .

In the Economics dialog box in from within the Workflow of will look like the example shown in . Note that the simulation in the Simulations box of corresponds to the variable name in the Child reference field of the Workflow Editor as shown in .

Referring to this example shows how to analyze uncertainty in a parameter in the economic model . In this example in each of the three Merak Economics process statements in the workflow of will have a different run name HIGH BASE and LOW assigned to it and each of these runs will use a different economic model that corresponds to high base and low oil price scenarios.

Referring to and Well Drilling cost and Run Name can both be substituted with variable names . The run name in the process can be a string variable allowing the name of the run to be controlled from the workflow. In this scenario if a String variable is created with the name RUNNAME and if this name is used as the run name in the Merak Economics dialog box then a run will be created called RUNNAME which can be edited in the normal way. However when the workflow is run the name of the run will be substituted with the value of the RUNNAME string variable. You will see the subsequent nodes appearing on the Cases tree . These runs will have real names whatever was substituted by the workflow manager . This allows you to either re run the workflow after editing the run that has the RUNNAME run name or re run individual runs by selecting the run that has the appropriate run name. It was necessary to do this since each run that you generate from the workflow manager could be unique depending on the values of the various fields in the process. These cannot be represented on the Cases tree by a single generic run. It is the run s name that makes it unique. This is the list you see in the drop down list in the Merak Economics dialog box . Each run can perform the economics calculations on several simulations. Therefore on the Cases tree you will get multiple nodes of the same name but for each simulation the run names will be unique.

In this example creates a new run name RUNNAME where the simulation to use is set as Variable A . The illustrations of show how new runs can be created by the Workflow Editor. This can help you organize your various economic runs so that you can easily identify them.

In in this example variables are used in the Workflow Editor to define the run name and the well drilling costs.

In these examples show how the run name and variable costs are set up in the Merak Economics dialog box to use the variables defined in the Workflow Editor.

Referring to this example shows how specified well logs can be used to populate the variable in a workflow. In the Workflow Editor add a reference adding the variable and well log that you want to associate with that variable in this case we are associating three different values with the same variable.

In a single economic run can be used provided that the variable name is provided as the Osprey Risk Plug in well log as shown in .

The Structure of the Software for Performing Economic Calculations in Petro Technical Workflows of FIG. Software Requirements Specification

The structure of the Software for Performing Economic Calculations in Petro Technical Workflows illustrated in is set forth in and represented by the following Software Requirements Specification .

The following section of this specification defines the comprehensive requirements for the first release of the Software for Performing Economic Calculations in Petro Technical Workflows illustrated in otherwise known as the Petrel Economics Plug in module Petrel Tycoon . This is a module that extends current functionality to include fiscal economics using a combination of Peep and the Fiscal Model Libraries.

The document is structured into an overall description of the PMEP and the two main workflows that are required for the first release. The requirements section covers main deliverables.

The PMEP delivers a complete S2 solution on the Petrel platform providing robust economics with a simplified user input to encourage use by geoscientists and engineers in any asset team. In an environment where our clients are looking more closely at risk and uncertainty to understand the impact on their business of decisions from the petro technical world a push for more consistent and transparent valuations from Sarbenes Oxley and an increased pressure from shareholders to improve their reserves production ratio the PMEP will enable our clients to meet these targets.

Petrel via ECLIPSE or FrontSim will provide Tycoon with the relevant vectors that it needs to perform the economic calculation such as phase production or injection rates workover and drilling rates etc. Well costs can be read in from the Petrel Osprey risk plugin module as well. The Petrel interface will provide inputs to operating costs etc. All results visualization and plotting will be done natively in Petrel using the results tree.

The following summary use cases are intended to provide a concise definition of the product requirements.

Using production curves produced by ECLIPSE or FrontSim inside the Petrel environment the PMEP is executed against a case. The user selects an existing economic model or creates a new economic model. The economic model includes the fiscal model product price and operating costs. The user also selects the case he wants to run the economic model against and clicks run. Tycoon then passes all the input parameters to Peep and then returns the results to Petrel where plots of After Tax Cashflow or Capital Costs vs time can be made.

In screening economics or uncertainty evaluation workflows the PMEP needs to be run in a loop against multiple cases via the Petrel Workflow Manager. This will provide a distribution of an economic indicator for example NPV or ROR whereby the user can obtain the P P or P values he needs or select the case that corresponds to a particular probability.

The PMEP will be able to run any economic valuation for any Petrel model located anywhere in the world. This requires use of either Canadian US or World Peep with the Fiscal Model Library dependent on the user selection in the economic model.

The PMEP user interface has to be 100 consistent with Petrel. See section 5 that includes a mock up of the UI. The paradigm is that same as that for the current Petrel Well Design Process.

To mitigate risk in this release the data exchange mechanism for Petrel to load the economic output from Tycoon will be via ECLIPSE summary file formats. Initially the production profiles from the case will be passed to Tycoon via the API. Tycoon will then pass all the necessary information to Peep to do the calculations and pass the results back to Tycoon which then has to generate a text file in the ECLIPSE summary file format containing the various output vectors e.g. ATCF Taxes Capital Costs etc . Using a defined XML configuration file Petrel will be able to populate the Results Tree from the Tycoon summary file.

Tycoon will use cumulatives or totals whenever possible to avoid ambiguities with rate averaging. It will interpolate to get the appropriate production injection during the need to subtract the quantity at time period n 1 from that at time period n to determine the appropriate rate to inform with Peep.

Output from ECLIPSE in the Petrel environment could be at any regular interval e.g. every 5 days every 5 months or 5 every years. Tycoon needs to be able to preprocess these quantities and average them at the desired frequency 

If a client e.g. Shell has their own library of fiscal models PMEP will allow for them to use this instead of the provided FML models. We will provide a separate PMEP Administrative utility for internal SIS support staff use only that a site administrator could use to configure the custom models for use in PMEP. The fee will be left to the geomarkets discretion to negotiate with the client.

PMEP should provide an export mechanism PEX file for the user to export the Petrel Case and economic model to Peep for further detailed analysis.

The PMEP should have the ability to be called and controlled with the Workflow Manager. This will enable its use for screening economics workflows where multiple realizations of a geological model are run to assess ranges of NPVs etc. Additionally the Workflow Manager will have the ability to substitute any of the economic model variables e.g. oil price variable operating cost workover cost etc with a distribution.

Install package needs to deploy the Peep database attach the database to MSDE or SQLServer. Tycoon configuration will specify what ODBC connection Peep will use

The PMEP will read well costs from a text file written by the Petrel Osprey Risk plugin if available The location of this file will always be in the current Petrel project directory and the filename format will be wellname.txt where wellname is the name of the well that has costs associated with it.

Due to the fact that some the our current Peep clients are also Petrel users the PMEP must clearly differentiate its features and functionalities from the standalone Peep application. The PMEP needs to be positioned in the marketplace for the petrotechnical market NOT the traditional Peep market segment economists financial planners etc . A key point to note is that Merak is attempting to create a new market segment for its products in order to grow the business. A continued focus on the vertical core Merak competency is being supplemented by this new entrance into the petro technical desktop. It is important that we maintain limited functionality in the PMEP to avoid conflicting messages to our clients. Advanced Peep features like ring fencing etc will not be ported over to PMEP.

A new Economics checkbox in the Results Tab Define Simulation Case Process is added which should also export the summary file keywords 

Referring to PMEP will produce a summary file with the Case Name which will contain all the economic indicators e.g. After Tax Cash Flow etc . Petrel will import these and display them under the Results folder and Case folders. See representing the Petrel Results and Case Trees .

Referring to Petrel will include the PMEP as an available process in the Process Manager. Refer to representing PMEP in Process Manager . An example logic would be 

The mechanism will be the same as is currently done for ECLIPSE summary files via an XML configuration file an example of this is located in the XML subdirectory in the Petrel installation location and also in the Appendix of this document .

Referring to Petrel will add Economics Calculation to the list of Utilities. See Launching the PMEP .

The scope of this use case is to define how a geoscientist or engineer using Petrel will interact with PMEP. The tasks include building an ECLIPSE model with the appropriate keywords running the ECLIPSE model creating an economic model to run against the Petrel case and plotting the economic vectors in the Petrel plot windows.

The economic calculations are performed on a local machine where Petrel is running. The Tycoon database is running locally on the Petrel PC.

The user will require several licensed components to run the simulation. These include but are not limited to the following 

Licenses are checked out by the individual components and require no extra effort on the part of the user.

The summary specification file must be available for a post processor to read ECLIPSE summary files. Table 3.1 lists the keywords used in the Specification file 

For multiple file output ECLIPSE creates one summary file at each simulation report step with suffices in the form S0001 S0002 etc. If the summary files originate from a restart run the suffix numbers will correspond to the restart report step sequence. E.g. for a run started from a restart file created at report step 9 the new summary files will have suffices S0010 S0011 etc. For unified file output data for all report steps are written to the same file with a new header for each step.

For each report step there may be one or more timesteps also called ministeps corresponding to the simulation steps taken between reports. Parameter values for the data vectors are output at each ministep. In a complete sequence of summary data the first ministep will be ministep 0 written at time 0.0 but the first report step will be report step 1 written at the end of the first report period . In a restarted run the ministep numbers are incremented from the previous run.

The above description of the Software for performing economic calculations in Petro Technical workflows being thus described it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the claimed method or system or program storage device or computer program and all such modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.

