---

title: Method and system for triggering activation of IMS applications on a mobile radio terminal
abstract: A method of remotely activating a non-native IP multimedia subsystem (IMS) application of an electronic device. The method may include receiving at least one of a general IMS availability registration from the electronic device or a native IMS application registration from the electronic device; identifying the non-native IMS application using a database that associates IMS applications with corresponding electronic devices; transmitting an activation trigger for the non-native IMS application to the electronic device; and receiving an IMS application registration for the non-native IMS application and registering the non-native IMS application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08849913&OS=08849913&RS=08849913
owner: Sony Mobile Communications AB
number: 08849913
owner_city: Lund
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20060623
---
The present invention relates generally to electronic equipment such as electronic equipment for engaging in voice communications and or for executing internet protocol IP multimedia subsystem IMS applications. More particularly the invention relates to a method and system for triggering the activation of IMS applications when the electronic equipment is powered on.

Mobile and or wireless electronic devices are becoming increasingly popular. For example mobile telephones and portable media players are now in wide spread use. In addition the features associated with certain types of electronic devices have become increasingly diverse. To name a few examples many electronic devices have cameras text messaging capability Internet browsing functionality electronic mail capability video playback capability audio playback capability image display capability and hands free headset interfaces.

Certain services and functionality of electronic devices rely on an application e.g. a program having executable logic or code that is executed by the electronic device to implement a service such as text messaging push to talk PTT etc. If the application is not activated and or is not registered with a network server that supports operation of the application the corresponding service will not be available to the user. Also other electronic devices will not be able to interact with the application.

An exemplary platform for providing multimedia services to mobile and fixed location electronic devices is IMS. Exemplary IMS applications include an instant messenger function a push to talk function a video share function and a presence indicator function. IMS applications are based on third generation partnership project 3GPP and run over session initiation protocol SIP . SIP when coordinated by a SIP server establishes and controls multimedia communication sessions between client devices over the network. IMS applications may make their way onto electronic devices through for example a SIP application programming interface API for Java 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME . For instance Java specification request JSR 180 and JSR 281 may be used to construct J2ME mobile information device profile MIDP 2.0 applications.

As will be appreciated the IMS session based applications described above can create an environment where many compelling services may be offered to end users in the system. Those end users may be persons interacting with an electronic device such as a mobile telephone or machines operated by for example data service providers and commercial institutions. Most end user services are peer to peer services with a SIP server negotiating the relevant connections. A peer to peer application of this type on one device typically requires knowledge about the availability and operating state of a compatible application on a target device for operation of the underlying service.

Unfortunately a way to automatically start up J2ME MIDP 2.0 applications at system boot up does not exist. If the application does not start up and communicate with the supporting SIP server e.g. register with the server the supporting SIP server will not be aware that the electronic device having the functionality of the application is present on the network. As a result end users that wish to interact with a target electronic device using a service associated with an unregistered application on the target electronic device will not have a way of knowing the true availability of the application on the target electronic device.

In view of the above mentioned shortcomings associated with conventional IMS applications there is a need in the art to facilitate start up and registration of IMS applications following boot up of an associated electronic device.

According to one aspect of the invention a method of remotely activating a non native IP multimedia subsystem IMS application of an electronic device includes receiving at least one of a general IMS availability registration from the electronic device or a native IMS application registration from the electronic device identifying the non native IMS application using a database that associates IMS applications with corresponding electronic devices transmitting an activation trigger for the non native IMS application to the electronic device and receiving an IMS application registration for the non native IMS application and registering the non native IMS application.

According to one embodiment of the method the method is carried out by a server of a communications network and the electronic device is a mobile radio terminal.

According to one embodiment the method further includes maintaining the database by associating the non native IMS application with the electronic device when enrollment is made for a service supported by the non native IMS application.

According to one embodiment of the method the activation trigger is a wireless application protocol WAP push.

According to one embodiment the method further includes negotiating session initiation protocol SIP connections between the non native IMS application executed by the electronic device and a corresponding IMS application executed by a SIP client.

According to one embodiment of the method an application programming interface API for the non native IMS application is one of Java specification request JSR 180 or JSR 281.

According to one embodiment of the method plural non native IMS applications associated with the electronic device are identified and activation triggers are transmitted for each non native IMS application the activation triggers transmitted without waiting for registration of the non native IMS application associated with any one of the activation triggers.

According to one embodiment of the method plural non native IMS applications associated with the electronic device are identified and activation triggers are transmitted for each non native IMS application and except for a first one of the activation triggers transmission of each activation trigger is dependent on receiving a registration for the IMS application associated with the previously transmitted activation trigger.

According to another aspect of the invention a program for remotely activating a non native IP multimedia subsystem IMS application of an electronic device is stored on a computer readable medium and the program includes logic to receive at least one of a general IMS availability registration from the electronic device or a native IMS application registration from the electronic device identify the non native IMS application using a database that associates IMS applications with corresponding electronic devices transmit an activation trigger for the non native IMS application to the electronic device and receive an IMS application registration for the non native IMS application and registering the non native IMS application.

According to one embodiment of the program the program is executed by a server of a communications network and the electronic device is a mobile radio terminal.

According to one embodiment the program further includes logic to maintain the database by associating the non native IMS application with the electronic device when enrollment is made for a service supported by the non native IMS application.

According to one embodiment of the program the activation trigger is a wireless application protocol WAP push.

According to one embodiment the program further includes logic to negotiate session initiation protocol SIP connections between the non native IMS application executed by the electronic device and a corresponding IMS application executed by a SIP client.

According to one embodiment of the program an application programming interface API for the non native IMS application is one of Java specification request JSR 180 or JSR 281.

According to one embodiment of the program upon identification of plural non native IMS applications associated with the electronic device the logic to transmit transmits an activation trigger for each non native IMS application the activation triggers transmitted without waiting for registration of the non native IMS application associated with any one of the activation triggers.

According to one embodiment of the program upon identification of plural non native IMS applications associated with the electronic device the logic to transmit transmits an activation trigger for each non native IMS application and except for a first one of the activation triggers transmission of each activation trigger is dependent on receiving a registration for the IMS application associated with the previously transmitted activation trigger.

These and further features of the present invention will be apparent with reference to the following description and attached drawings. In the description and drawings particular embodiments of the invention have been disclosed in detail as being indicative of some of the ways in which the principles of the invention may be employed but it is understood that the invention is not limited correspondingly in scope. Rather the invention includes all changes modifications and equivalents coming within the spirit and terms of the claims appended hereto.

Features that are described and or illustrated with respect to one embodiment may be used in the same way or in a similar way in one or more other embodiments and or in combination with or instead of the features of the other embodiments.

It should be emphasized that the term comprises comprising when used in this specification is taken to specify the presence of stated features integers steps or components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps components or groups thereof.

The present invention will now be described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. It will be understood that the figures are not necessarily to scale.

The term electronic equipment includes portable radio communication equipment. The term portable radio communication equipment which herein after is referred to as a mobile radio terminal includes all equipment such as mobile telephones pagers communicators electronic organizers personal digital assistants PDAs smartphones portable communication apparatus or the like.

In the present application the invention is described primarily in the context of a mobile telephone. However it will be appreciated that the invention is not intended to be limited to a mobile telephone and can be any type of appropriate electronic equipment. Also embodiments of the invention are described primarily in the context of triggering the activation of one or more IMS applications that are implemented through a Java API such as JSR 180 or JSR 281. Such applications may be referred to as J2ME MIDP 2.0 applications. However it will be appreciated that the invention is not intended to be limited to any specific type of application and may be used in conjunction with any application that may be remotely triggered.

Referring initially to an electronic equipment is shown. The electronic equipment includes an IMS application support function that is configured to interact with IMS applications executed by the electronic equipment and interact with a remotely located server. The operation of the IMS support function will be described in greater detail below. It will be appreciated that the IMS support function may be embodied as executable code that may be resident in and executed by the electronic equipment . For instance the IMS support function may be a program stored on a computer or machine readable medium.

The electronic equipment of the illustrated embodiment is a mobile telephone and will be referred to as the mobile telephone . The mobile telephone is shown as having a brick or block form factor housing but it will be appreciated that other type housings such as a clamshell housing or a slide type housing may be utilized.

The mobile telephone includes a display and keypad . The display displays information to a user such as operating state time telephone numbers contact information various navigational menus etc. which enable the user to utilize the various features of the mobile telephone . The display may also be used to visually display content received by the mobile telephone and or retrieved from a memory of the mobile telephone .

Similarly the keypad may be conventional in that it provides for a variety of user input operations. For example the keypad typically includes alphanumeric keys for allowing entry of alphanumeric information such as telephone numbers phone lists contact information notes etc. In addition the keypad typically includes special function keys such as a call send key for initiating or answering a call and a call end key for ending or hanging up a call. Special function keys may also include menu navigation keys for example for navigating through a menu displayed on the display to select different telephone functions profiles settings etc. as is conventional. Other keys associated with the mobile telephone may include a volume key an audio mute key an on off power key a web browser launch key a camera key etc. Keys or key like functionality may also be embodied as a touch screen associated with the display .

The mobile telephone includes call circuitry that enables the mobile telephone to establish a call and or exchange signals with a called calling device typically another mobile telephone or landline telephone. However the called calling device need not be another telephone but may be some other device such as an Internet web server content providing server etc. The call circuitry also may be responsible for transmitting and receiving data signals and or messages in conjunction with the operation of the IMS support function .

In addition the processing device executes code in order to perform the IMS support function . Additionally the processing device may execute various IMS applications . Example services supported by IMS applications include caller ID e.g. CLIP CLIR etc. call waiting call holding push to talk PTT call forwarding call transfer call blocking malicious caller identification lawful interception announcement services conference calling voicemail text to speech speech recognition e.g. speech to text location based services text messaging multimedia messaging instant messaging presence information or presence indicating multimedia data transcoding video share services and so on.

Some IMS applications may be native IMS application which are typically installed on the mobile telephone at the time of manufacture. Additionally a base IMS stack e.g. which forms a part of the IMS support function or is separately executable from the IMS support function may contain logic to trigger activation of the native IMS applications when the mobile telephone is power up e.g. turned on after a period of time when the mobile telephone has been turned off. Other IMS applications may be non native IMS applications which are typically installed on the mobile telephone after manufacture e.g. by the user or by a communications service provider . When a non native IMS application is loaded onto the mobile telephone for execution the base IMS stack is not modified to trigger activation of the non native IMS applications . Thus for non native IMS applications that are implemented through an API such as JSR 180 or JSR 281 these application will not become activated at mobile telephone power up without some additional action. Described in greater detail below is a technique for non native IMS application start up with the cooperation of a remote server.

It will be apparent to a person having ordinary skill in the art of computer programming and specifically in applications programming for mobile telephones or other electronic devices how to program a mobile telephone and remote server described below with respect to to operate and carry out the functions described herein. Accordingly details as to the specific programming code have been left out for the sake of brevity. Also while the IMS support function is executed by the processing device in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention such functionality could also be carried out via dedicated hardware firmware software or combinations thereof without departing from the scope of the invention.

Continuing to refer to the mobile telephone includes an antenna coupled to a radio circuit . The radio circuit includes a radio frequency transmitter and receiver for transmitting and receiving signals via the antenna as is conventional. The radio circuit may be configured to operate in a mobile communications system and may be used to send and receive data and or audiovisual content. Receiver types for interaction with a mobile radio network and or broadcasting network include but are not limited to GSM CDMA WCDMA GPRS MBMS WiFi WiMax DVB H ISDB T etc as well as advanced versions of these standards.

The mobile telephone further includes a sound signal processing circuit for processing audio signals transmitted by received from the radio circuit . Coupled to the sound processing circuit are a speaker and a microphone that enable a user to listen and speak via the mobile telephone as is conventional. The radio circuit and sound processing circuit are each coupled to the control circuit so as to carry out overall operation. Audio data may be passed from the control circuit to the sound signal processing circuit for playback to the user. The audio data may include for example audio data from an audio file stored by the memory and retrieved by the control circuit . The sound processing circuit may include any appropriate buffers decoders amplifiers and so forth.

The mobile telephone also includes the aforementioned display and keypad coupled to the control circuit . The display may be coupled to the control circuit by a video decoder that converts video data to a video signal used to drive the display . The video data may be generated by the control circuit retrieved from a video file that is stored in the memory derived from an incoming video data stream received by the radio circuit or obtained by any other suitable method. Prior to being fed to the decoder the video data may be buffered in a buffer .

The mobile telephone further includes one or more I O interface s . The I O interface s may be in the form of typical mobile telephone I O interfaces and may include one or more electrical connectors. As is typical the I O interface s may be used to couple the mobile telephone to a battery charger to charge a battery of a power supply unit PSU within the mobile telephone . In addition or in the alternative the I O interface s may serve to connect the mobile telephone to a wired personal hands free adaptor not shown such as a headset sometimes referred to as an earset to audibly output sound signals output by the sound processing circuit to the user. Further the I O interface s may serve to connect the mobile telephone to a personal computer or other device via a data cable. The mobile telephone may receive operating power via the I O interface s when connected to a vehicle power adapter or an electricity outlet power adapter.

The mobile telephone may also include a timer for carrying out timing functions. Such functions may include timing the durations of calls generating the content of time and date stamps etc. The mobile telephone may include a camera for taking digital pictures and or movies. Image and or video files corresponding to the pictures and or movies may be stored in the memory . The mobile telephone also may include a position data receiver such as a global positioning system GPS receiver Galileo satellite system receiver or the like. The mobile telephone also may include a local wireless interface such as an infrared transceiver and or an RF adaptor e.g. a Bluetooth adapter for establishing communication with an accessory a hands free adaptor e.g. a headset that may audibly output sounds corresponding to audio data transferred from the mobile telephone to the headset another mobile radio terminal a computer or another device.

The mobile telephone may be configured to transmit receive and process data such as text messages e.g. colloquially referred to by some as an SMS electronic mail messages multimedia messages e.g. colloquially referred to by some as an MMS image files video files audio files ring tones streaming audio streaming video data feeds including podcasts and so forth. Processing such data may include storing the data in the memory executing applications to allow user interaction with data displaying video and or image content associated with the data outputting audio sounds associated with the data and so forth.

With additional reference to the mobile telephone may be configured to operate as part of a communications system . The system may include a communications network having a server or servers for managing calls placed by and destined to the mobile telephone transmitting data to the mobile telephone and carrying out any other support functions. The server communicates with the mobile telephone via a transmission medium. The transmission medium may be any appropriate device or assembly including for example a communications tower another mobile telephone a wireless access point a satellite etc. Portions of the network may include wireless transmission pathways. The network may support the communications activity of multiple mobile telephones and other types of end user devices.

As will be appreciated the server may be configured as a typical computer system used to carry out server functions and may include a processor configured to execute software containing logical instructions that embody the functions of the server . Those functions may include an IMS registration function that triggers the activation of IMS applications on the mobile telephone as will be described in greater detail below. The IMS registration function may be embodied as executable code that may be resident in and executed by the server . For instance the IMS registration function may be a program stored on a computer or machine readable medium. Also while the IMS registration function is executed by the server in accordance with the preferred embodiment of the invention such functionality could also be carried out via dedicated hardware firmware software or combinations thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. The server also may function as a SIP server to negotiate interaction between the mobile telephone and another IMS SIP client . The client may be a mobile radio terminal or some other type of mobile or fixed location device.

With additional reference to illustrated are logical operations performed by the mobile telephone when executing the IMS support function and the server when executing the IMS registration function . may be thought of as a flow chart of logical blocks that make up the IMS support function and the IMS registration function . In addition may be thought of as depicting steps of a method carried out by the mobile telephone and a method carried out by the server . Although shows a specific order of executing functional logic blocks the order of execution of the blocks may be changed relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Certain blocks also may be omitted. In addition any number of commands state variables semaphores or messages may be added to the logical flow for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement troubleshooting and the like. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present invention.

The logical flow may commence in block where the mobile telephone seeks registration with the communications network . For instance after the mobile telephone has been powered off and powered on again part of the boot up process may entail communication with the communication network to negotiate the presence of the mobile telephone in the system . Such registration may include execution of an base IMS protocol stack which may form part of the IMS support function . The base IMS protocol stack may contact the server to seek registration for general IMS availability with the server . In addition the base IMS protocol stack may trigger activation of the native IMS applications or those applications may be self triggering . Upon activation the native IMS applications may seek registration with the server so that the functionality of the native IMS applications may be exploited.

In block the server carries out coordinating logic routines to register the mobile telephone . In response to the activity of block such registration may include registration for general IMS availability and registration of the native IMS applications

Proceeding to block the server may check a database for a listing of non native IMS application for which the mobile telephone is associated. The database may be a look up table or any other suitable database structure. To populate the database the server may update the database when a new IMS application is installed on the mobile telephone e.g. by pushing a Java client from a personal computer to the mobile telephone and when enrollment is made for the service associated with the IMS application . Using the enrollment information details of the installed IMS application may become known to the server and used to update the database .

Upon identifying the non native IMS applications associated with the mobile telephone in block the logical flow may proceed to block where the server takes action to trigger activation the non native IMS applications in the mobile telephone . In one embodiment the server transmits a wireless application protocol WAP push to the mobile telephone . The WAP push may contain data to trigger one or more of the IMS applications . In a preferred embodiment a WAP push in accordance with a standardized demand for registration is transmitted for each non native IMS application to an appropriate port for the IMS application . In other embodiment a single WAP push may be configured to trigger activation of multiple IMS applications

In block after receiving the trigger to activate one or more of the non native IMS applications e.g. receiving WAP push registry demands transmitted by the server the mobile telephone may awaken the corresponding non native IMS application s . Following activation of the non native IMS applications in block the activated non native IMS applications may seek registration with the server in block . Corresponding registration steps may be taken by the server in block .

As will be appreciated the forgoing logical process provides a mechanism by which all IMS applications of a mobile telephone may be activated following a rebooting of the mobile telephone regardless of whether the application is an after market Java based application or a native application pre loaded on the mobile telephone . In a preferred embodiment the logical process is expeditiously carried out starting with the registration of block in order to activate the services associated with the non native IMS applications as quickly as possible after rebooting of the mobile telephone. In other embodiments the transmission of an activating trigger for one or more of the non native IMS applications may be deferred by the server .

In one embodiment activating triggers may be transmitted for the non native IMS applications as a burst of transmissions and without waiting for any one non native IMS application to awaken and register. In other embodiment such parallel treatment of IMS applications may be substituted with serial treatment of the IMS applications . For instance after transmitting a trigger for one IMS application the server may wait to receive a registration request for the corresponding IMS application before transmitting a trigger for another of the IMS applications .

With continued reference to after the IMS applications become active on the mobile telephone and registered with the server the services associated with the IMS applications may be exploited. For instance in block the server may negotiate SIP connections between the mobile telephone and the client while the mobile telephone and the client respectively execute appropriate IMS applications in blocks and .

Although the invention has been shown and described with respect to certain preferred embodiments it is understood that equivalents and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art upon the reading and understanding of the specification. The present invention includes all such equivalents and modifications and is limited only by the scope of the following claims.

