---

title: Viscous material metering system and method
abstract: A viscous material metering system comprises a cutting apparatus comprising a tensioning fork having a main body diverging into extending tines; a cutting wire tensioned between the tines of the fork; and a driving mechanism operatively connected to the tensioning fork to drive the fork and tensioned cutting wire; and a controller controllably connected to the driving mechanism and having a set of instructions to control the driving mechanism to drive the fork to cut a continuous viscous material into portions of a predetermined size or weight for metering to a viscous material compounding system. A viscous material metering method comprises determining a sequential portion of viscous material to be metered from a container to a viscous material compounding system; metering portions of the continuous viscous material to the compounding system by cutting the material substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of an elongated continuous viscous material feed expressed from the container; and controlling the cutting to meter the determined sequential portion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07784503&OS=07784503&RS=07784503
owner: Momentive Performance Materials
number: 07784503
owner_city: Albany
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060929
---
The invention relates to a viscous material metering system and method in particular for supplying an organosiloxane silicone gum or other viscous material to a continuous compounding system.

In a compounding system a material is fed to a processing line where feed is mixed and additives are injected in proportions to produce a customized product. The system requires precise and reliable dosing and feed operations to achieve uniform products with narrow tolerance properties. Accurately metering the material in a feed step can be critical to proper system operation.

However it is difficult to separate an accurate quantity of a viscous material to feed a system from a bulk of the material. Accurate separation is difficult because of slow response of the viscous material to change in feed rate and because of the difficulty in separating a metered size or weight of the viscous material from a bulk of the material. The material may be resistant to pouring or if it can be poured pour rate is extremely slow. A viscous material may exhibit high levels of adhesion or tendency to stick to other materials and or cohesion or a tendency to remain stuck to itself and therefore resistant to separation. The viscous material may be shear thickening exhibiting increasing viscosity as shear on the material is increased. It is difficult to feed accurate quantities of such materials so that an amount in a process can be controlled.

In some viscous material processes a cutting tool such as a knife blade or scissors is used to cut or dice portions of the material from a bulk or other quantity supply. For example a feed portion of viscous material can be cut from a large bulk mass from a pulled relatively thin cross sectional string or from a generally cylindrical shape of the viscous material by such tools. However a relatively large force may be required and time and machinery may be required to move a blade or the like through a viscous material. Another disadvantage to moving a blade or the like through the material is the adherence of the material to the blade especially if the material is sticky highly adhering . The cutting tool may require frequent cleaning to remove accumulation of stuck material. Also as the material sticks to the cutting tool the force and work required to move a cutting tool through the material further increases.

Accordingly there is a need to facilitate separating difficult handling viscous material. Also there is a need to accurately cut defined quantities of such material from a bulk quantity regardless of the form of the bulk quantity and there is a need to accurately charge a viscous material to a processing system.

The invention provides an improved viscous material metering system and method to accurately cut defined quantities of such material from a bulk quantity regardless of the form of the bulk quantity.

In an embodiment the invention is a viscous material metering system comprising a cutting apparatus comprising a tensioning fork having a main body diverging into extending tines a cutting wire tensioned between the tines of the fork and a driving mechanism operatively connected to the tensioning fork to drive the fork and tensioned cutting wire and a controller controllably connected to the driving mechanism and having a set of instructions to control the driving mechanism to drive the fork to cut a continuous viscous material into portions of a predetermined size or weight for metering to a viscous material compounding system.

In another embodiment the invention is a viscous material metering method comprising determining a sequential portion of viscous material to be metered from a container to a viscous material compounding system metering portions of the continuous viscous material to the compounding system by cutting the material substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of an elongated continuous viscous material feed expressed from the container and controlling the cutting to meter the determined sequential portion.

Another embodiment is a viscous material metering system comprising a cutting apparatus comprising a tensioning fork having a main body diverging into extending tines a cutting wire tensioned between the tines of the fork and a driving mechanism operatively connected to the tensioning fork to drive the fork and tensioned cutting wire a controller controllably connected to the driving mechanism and having a set of instructions to control the driving mechanism to drive the fork to cut a continuous viscous material into portions of a predetermined size or weight and a compounding system that receives cut portions of the silicone gum for compounding.

Another embodiment is a method of controlling a silicone gum feed to a processing system comprising determining a size or weight portion of a silicone gum for processing evacuating silicone gum from a container to form a continuous feed cutting the silicone gum continuous feed and controlling the cutting of the silicone gum continuous feed to cut the feed into the determined size or weight portion.

Another embodiment is a silicone gum cutting system comprising a cutting apparatus comprising a tensioning fork having a main body diverging into extending tines a cutting wire tensioned by a tensioning block and anchor between the tines of the fork and a driving mechanism operatively connected to the tensioning fork to drive the fork and tensioned cutting wire and a controller connected in a sensing relationship to the driving mechanism and having a set of instructions to i store an input value representing a set point weight of viscous material to be charged to the viscous material compounding system ii sense an initial combined weight of the container evacuator feed tube cutting apparatus and a container with viscous material iii sense a progressing combined weight of the container evacuator feed tube cutting apparatus and a container with viscous material as material is metered by the cutting apparatus iv calculate a material weight charged from the metering system to a subsequent viscous material compounding system according to a difference between the initial combined weight and the sensed progressing combined weight v increase the rate of metering of material by the cutting apparatus when the calculated material weight charged is within a first predetermined range of the set point and v terminate the material charging when a calculated charged material weight is within a second predetermined range of the set point.

Another embodiment is a method for feeding silicone gum to a compounding process comprising evacuating silicone gum from a container by a feed system for charge to a silicone gum compounding process monitoring a weight of the combined feed system container and silicone gum held within the container as silicone gum is evacuated determining an amount of silicone gum charged to the compounding process according to a difference between the initial weight and a monitored weight of the combined feed system container and silicone gum held within the container as silicone gum is evacuated and controlling a rate of dicing silicone gum that is evacuated from the container for feed to the compounding process according to the determined amount of charged silicone gum.

Still another embodiment is a silicone gum feed system comprising a drum press located on a loss of weight scale a feed tube that receives material expressed from a drum by the drum press a cutting apparatus that meters material from the feed tube to a processing system according to loss of weight sensed by the scale and a controller with a set of instructions to store an initial weight monitor a continuing weight determine weight of silicone gum fed to the processing system according to a difference between the initial weight and the monitored weight and controlling a rate of the cutting apparatus according to the difference.

Still another embodiment is a method of controlling a feed to a processing system comprising establishing a material feed session set point range feeding a viscous material in the session by dicing a steadily moving material into a portion that drops sequentially into the processing system monitoring a session total of material dropped into the processing system comparing the session total of material to the session set point range increasing a cutting rate of the moving material to decrease each cut portion quantity as the session set point range is approached and terminating the material feed of the session when the total material is within the session set point range.

In another embodiment the invention is a material feed system comprising a material extracting apparatus and a controller with a set of instructions to i refer to a look up data base to determine a set point for a material to be charged to a compounding system ii sense an initial combined weight of a material extracting apparatus and a container with material iii signal commencement of operation of the material extracting apparatus to evacuate material from the container iv sense a progressing combined weight of the material extracting apparatus and the container with material v calculate a charged material weight according to a difference between the initial combined weight and the sensed progressing combined weight and vi terminating the material extracting apparatus operation when a calculated charged material weight is within a predetermined range of the set point.

In another embodiment the invention is a process to feed a material compounding system comprising referring to a look up data base to determine a set point for a material to be charged to the compounding system sensing an initial combined weight of a material extracting apparatus and a container with material signaling commencement of a material extracting apparatus operation to evacuate the material from the container sensing a progressing combined weight of the material extracting apparatus and the container with material calculating a charged material weight according to a difference between the initial combined weight and the sensed progressing combined weight and terminating the material extracting apparatus operation when a calculated charged material weight is within a specified range of the set point.

Another embodiment of the invention is a controller for a feed to a processing system comprising a set of instructions to establish a material feed session set point range to direct feeding a viscous material in the session by dicing a steadily moving material into a portion that drops sequentially into the processing system to monitor a session total of material dropped into the processing system to compare the session total of material to the session set point range to increase a dicing rate of the moving material to decrease each cut portion quantity as the session set point range is approached and to terminate the material feed of the session when the total material is within the session set point range.

And another embodiment of the invention is viscous material processing system comprising a container evacuator a controller that drives the container evacuator a feed tube that receives material expressed from a container by the container evacuator according to the controller and a cutting apparatus that severs material from the feed tube to meter the material to a processor according to the controller.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of feeding a processing system comprising setting a total batch viscous material feed to a compounding system initiating a feed of the viscous material at a first set feed rate by dicing feed material at a first size or weight aliquot monitoring the feed rate and total batch viscous material feed changing the first size or weight aliquot to a second smaller size or weight aliquot as the total viscous material feed approaches a set point to provide an improved control of quantity of the batch viscous material feed.

Another embodiment of the invention is a method of controlling feed to a processing system comprising sensing a first weight of a combined viscous feed system container and viscous material within the container expressing a cut portion viscous material from the container and viscous feed system to a processing system sensing a subsequent weight of the combined viscous feed system container and viscous material within the container and determining a quantity of viscous material fed to the processing system by a difference between the first weight and the subsequent weight and controlling an expressed cut portion of viscous material according to the quantity of viscous material fed to the processing system.

Another embodiment of the invention is a silicone gum processing system comprising a silicone gum compounding system and a viscous material feed system to the compounding system the feed system comprising a cutting apparatus that meters material according to weight of material charged to the compounding system as monitored by a controller.

And another embodiment of the invention is a method of processing silicone gum comprising monitoring weight of material charged to a silicone gum compounding system controlling the metering of material to the compounding system by a cutting apparatus according to the monitored weight of charged material and compounding charged silicone gum in the compounding system.

The invention relates to the handling of a viscous material such as a silicone gum. In this application silicone gum is a viscous silicone including a gum and a rubber. A silicone or polysiloxane or organopolysiloxane has the chemical formula RSiO where R organic groups such as methyl ethyl and phenyl. These materials typically comprise an inorganic silicon oxygen backbone . . . Si O Si O Si O . . . with attached organic side groups which can be four coordinate. In some cases organic side groups can be used to link two or more of these Si O backbones together.

By varying the Si O chain lengths side groups and crosslinking silicones can be synthesized with a wide variety of properties and compositions. They can vary in consistency from liquid to gel to rubber to hard plastic. Silicone rubber or silicone gum is a silicone elastomer typically having high temperature properties. Silicone gum offers resistance to extreme temperatures being able to operate normally from minus 100 C. to plus 500 C. In such conditions tensile strength elongation tear strength and compression set can be superior to conventional rubbers.

A silicone gum can be extruded or molded into custom shapes and designs such as tubes strips solid cord or custom profiles within size restrictions specified by a manufacturer. Cord can be joined to make O Rings and extruded profiles can also be joined to make up seals.

The invention provides a system and method to cut or meter difficult to handle viscous materials such as a silicone gum. In this application meter means to supply in a measured or regulated amount. Cut means to sever separate or detach from a main body. A set point is a target weight of material to be charged into a compounding system from a continuous feed system.

Features of the invention will become apparent from the drawings and following detailed discussion which by way of example without limitation describe preferred embodiments of the invention.

The invention relates to a material feed system and method for feeding viscous material such as a silicone gum to a processing system. A preferred invention embodiment shown in the drawings illustrates the invention as a process to compound silicone gum into a base for forming articles. In the drawings is a schematic top view representation and is a schematic side view representation of a material processing system showing an integrated feed system and compounding system . The feed system includes a material extractor apparatus MEA conveyor and chute . and are detailed elevation views of the MEA and is a cut away side sectional view of a section of the MEA . The MEA includes container evacuator feed tube cutting apparatus and floor scale . The integrated feed system is controllably connected to controller . is a schematic side view of compounding system . As shown in and compounding system includes mixer roll mill conveyor belt and compounder .

The MEA serves to express the viscous material from a container to the compounding system . In one operation 55 gallon steel drums from a pallet are dumped into totes and the totes approx. 80 pounds each are dumped into a Banbury mixer. However manually maneuvering drums from pallets can cause back and shoulder strains and injuries. In a preferred compounding operation of the invention with respect to and operation commences with delivery of a pallet of four drums of gum. While the container can be any material holding enclosure the drawings embodiment includes a drum with a cylindrical wall of steel fiberboard or other material suitable for transporting a silicone gum material. The drum has opposite ends each of which is openable to accommodate a movable plunger at one end as hereinafter described.

The material in each drum may be identical or it may be of a variety of differing physical properties such as viscosity. The drums are removed from the pallet one by one by drum hauler such as from Easy Lift Equipment Co. Inc. 2 Mill Park Court Newark Del. 19713. The lid of each of three drums is removed and each of the drums is loaded by the hauler into a respective container evacuator which may be a Schwerdtel S 6 F drum press from Schwerdtel Corporation 40 Whitney Road Mahwah N.J. 07430. Use of the drum hauler eliminates ergonomic risks associated with lifting and handling the heavy drums .

The silicone gum is forced from each drum as a continuous flow that must be metered into weight or sized portions into the conveyor . In the drawings embodiment the MEA comprises a container evacuator feed tube and cutting apparatus . The container evacuator can be a drum press which is a device that evacuates viscous or compacted contents from a drum. As illustrated in and the container evacuator is a press that comprises a substantially cylindrical chamber with hinged closures and for securing a drum removably within the chamber . The chamber and hinged closures and securely cradle the drum during a material extracting operation. A disc shaped platen fits into the chamber with a flat driving surface oriented perpendiculars to the longitudinal axis of the chamber and correspondingly perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of a drum held within the chamber .

The operation of feed system can be described with reference to and . In operation the press closures and are manually unlatched by activating clamps and opening closures and . The drum hauler is used to load a first drum into the press cavity . The drum is secured by a locator ring at the base of the chamber . The right closure is first closed then the left closure by engaging a door switch by an actuator not shown . The cage chamber is closed and the actuator secures the press closures and at the commencement of a batch system cycle. The press closures and take pressure of the hydraulic system from a drum that may be thin walled.

Each MEA includes the container evacuator feed tube and cutting apparatus and each is set on a respective floor scale . In each MEA the feed tube is connected through the disc shaped platen to communicate with the press cavity . The figures particularly show the tube double orificed to the press chamber . The double orifice structure is connected through the platen on equal sides to the platen plunger . The platen is driven by hydraulic plunger .

When a batch is set up by loading each chamber of the feed system battery an operator can initiate the system cycle by a controller touch screen located at a work station. The controller can be a microprocessor or computer or the like for controlling the MEA as hereinafter described. When a cycle is activated by an operator a plunger of each container evacuator of the battery shown in is activated via control lines and . Then as the screw conveyor starts turning the press platen with connected feed tube is forced by hydraulically driven plunger to travel down into the drum interior. As further illustrated in as platen traverses the drum longitudinal axis within the press cavity drum contents are displaced upward into the connecting double orifice structure of the feed tube . As the platen completes traversing the drum axis all material is forced upward into the feed tube to be eventually expelled from the feed tube discharge port .

A continuous material discharged from port as shown in can be metered into portions by cutting apparatus as the material exits from the discharge port to the conveyor to charge to compounding system . Metering can be accomplished by various cutting mechanisms including a cutting head disposed at an outlet end of the feed tube. For example Brandl U.S. Pat. No. 5 797 516 incorporated hereto in its entirety discloses a cutting head formed by a knife that is detachably mounted in an axial direction and radial and tangential to the axial direction. The cutting head is rotatable relative to a feed tube about a common central longitudinal axis. A preferred cutting apparatus is described hereinafter with reference to and .

The controller of is responsively connected to loss of weight scales via lines to sense loss of weight as material is expressed from the drums to conveyor . The controller computes a weight charged of material charged to the conveyor by the difference between an initial weight of the MEA and initially emplaced and full drum . In the embodiment of the drawings the controller can sense an initial total weight of all the MEAs and emplaced full drums of the MEA battery of for example the three shown in . The controller monitors the combined weight as material in the drums that is evacuated to the conveyor . The controller contemporaneously calculates a weight of material charged to the conveyor and hence to the compounding system according to a difference between the initial total weight and contemporaneously sensed total weight.

In the and embodiment the MEA includes a cutting apparatus located at discharge port . A preferred cutting apparatus is shown in and . In and the cutting apparatus includes tensioning fork that secures cutting wire to drive the wire to cut material exiting the feed tube discharge port . Suitable cutting wires include high carbon steel drawn piano wire such as defined by ASTM A228. As examples the wire can be as small as 0.006 inches 0.15 mm in diameter up to 0.192 inches 4.8 mm in diameter. The cutting wire is attached to the fork at opposing tine ends by tension guide block and tensioner anchor . The tensioning fork is connected to a pneumatic slide which in turn is supported by mounting bracket . When pneumatically activated by line the slide propels the tensioning fork along guides which are oriented perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the feed tube . The tension guide block and tensioner anchor at tine ends secure the cutting wire so that when the fork is activated by hydraulic motor the cutting wire traverses the feed tube longitudinal axis at discharge port to cut material . Tension a measure of wire tautness of the cutting wire can be set at between 575 and 825 pounds or about 600 pounds The controller can monitor the wire tension to terminate operation of the press and cutting apparatus when tension on the wire falls outside this range as a result of breakage or loosening of the wire .

In one embodiment an input value representing a set point weight of viscous material to be charged to compounding system is input into and stored in the controller . The floor scale weighs an initial combined weight of the container evacuator feed tube cutting apparatus and a container with viscous material that is placed within the chamber of the evacuator . The controller then stores this value in its data base. Also the controller can have a set of instructions to sense a progressing combined weight of the container evacuator feed tube cutting apparatus and container with viscous material as material is metered by the cutting apparatus as shown in and . Then the controller can calculate a material weight charged from the feed system to the subsequent viscous material compounding system according to a difference between the initial combined weight and the sensed progressing combined weight. The controller terminates metering of material by the cutting apparatus when the calculated material weight charged is within a predetermined range of the set point. For example the controller can terminate metering of material when the calculated material weight charged is within 2 pounds of the set point.

The cutting wire speed can be controlled to cut material portion size. For example the controller can have a set of instructions to control the cutting apparatus to make cuts initial of football sized gum portions that can fit in a 14 inch interior diameter screw conveyor . Hence in an embodiment the controller has a set of instructions to control the driving mechanism to cut initial portions of material between 12 to 18 pounds. As the metering progresses the controller calculates the material weight charged from the feed system to the subsequent viscous material compounding system according to the difference between the initial combined weight and the sensed progressing combined weight. Then as the controller determines that the material weight charged is within a first predetermined range of the set point the controller will increase the rate of the cutting apparatus . Hence the controller can decrease the size and weight of a cut feed portion for example to less than 12 to 18 pounds. The smaller size and weight portions permit the metering of material to be controlled more exactly than at a higher cutting rate. For example the cutting rate can be increased and correspondingly the size and weight portions decreased when the controller calculates the material weight charged to be within 15 pounds of a set point. Then the increased cutting and the smaller size and weight portions are continued until terminated when the material weight charged is within a predetermined range of the set point for example within 2 pounds of the set point.

In an embodiment the controller has a set of instructions to first store an input value representing a set point weight of silicone gum to be charged to compounding system . The controller can control the driving mechanism to cut initial portions of 12 to 18 pounds. The controller then monitors the weight of silicone gum charged to the compounding system . The controller then can increase the driving mechanism operation to decrease the portions when the monitored charged material weight is for example within 15 pounds of the set point and can terminate the driving mechanism when the monitored charged material weight is for example within 2 pounds of the set point. This operation can be controlled by a controller having a set of instructions a set of instructions to i store an input value representing a set point weight of viscous material to be charged to a viscous material compounding system ii sense an initial combined weight of the container evacuator feed tube cutting apparatus and a container with viscous material iii sense a progressing combined weight of the container evacuator feed tube cutting apparatus and container with viscous material as material is metered by the cutting apparatus iv calculate a material weight charged from the metering system to a subsequent viscous material compounding system according to a difference between the initial combined weight and the sensed progressing combined weight v increase the rate of metering of material by the cutting apparatus when the calculated material weight charged is within a first predetermined range of the set point and v terminate the material charging when a calculated charged material weight is within a second predetermined range of the set point.

Second the controller senses tension of cutting wire to provide a failure cut off mechanism to the cutting apparatus . The cutting wire is held across fork by tension guide block and tensioner anchor at a predetermined tension appropriate to cleanly cut material without disruption to maintain a steady drop of material aliquot to conveyor . When the controller senses a drop in tension on account of a loosening or breaking of the cutting wire the controller terminates operation of the MEAs to avoid overrun of the hydraulic motor and misfeed of silicone gum material to conveyor and subsequently to the compounding system .

Continuing with reference to as a drum evacuation process is completed door clamps of the hinged closures and open and a controller Run Screen displays NEW DRUM. A beacon light mounted on the container evacuator turns yellow indicating the drum is ready to be changed. The chamber hinged closures and open the hydraulic unit motor terminates. The door clamps are opened manually and the empty drum is removed typically with the drum hauler. The press is reloaded with a drum the process repeated.

As material is charged from the presses to the screw conveyor the conveyor is turning at low rpms to feed the material to the mixer. The screw is programmed to stop turning 90 seconds after the last press makes its last cut. We have determined this time to be adequate to clear all material from the conveyor.

Conveyor transports and drops the silicone gum to chute which drops the material into a material compounding system . In one silicone compounding process a heat cured rubber HCR composition can be produced by kneading a high viscosity polydiorganosiloxane an inorganic filler and additives by means of a batch kneading machine such as the high intensity Banbury mixer or a low intensity double arm dough mixer. In this process silicone gum inorganic filler treating agents and additives are batch mixed until desired properties are obtained. In Kasahara et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 198 171 a preconcentrate of silicone gum inorganic filler and treating agents is formed by a high speed mechanical shearing mixer. The resulting premix is further compounded in a same direction double screw extruder. A premix is formed in a first step wherein a silicone gum having a viscosity at 25 C. of 1 10cP or more an inorganic filler and a treating agent are mixed in a high speed mechanical shearing machine to provide a flowable particulate mixture in which each ingredient is present in a substantially uniform finely dispersed state. The flowable particulate mixture is then fed at a constant feed rate into a kneading and extruding machine that has two screws rotating in the same direction.

As the material exits from the end of the conveyor it falls into a chute. It tumbles down the chute directly into the mixing chamber of a Banbury mixer where feed is mixed with filler and additives. In the and embodiment the silicone gum drops through chute to compounding system which includes mixer such as a Banbury roll mill conveyor belt and compounder . The material dropped from chute may be a feed of silicone gums of varying physical properties such as varying viscosity.

In the mixer such as a Bepex Turbolizer fumed silica the silicone gum and a treating agent can be added to form a densified polymer filler mass. After the gum feed is mixed it is dropped into the nip of roll mill where the material is rolled into a strip form. After a drop the PLC automatic system verifies that the mixer drop door has opened then reclosed and is ready for feed. For any residual material that hangs in the chute the pusher is programmed to sweep a few seconds after the conveyor stops. This serves to scrape down the chute and ensure all material gets into the mixer to correctly formulate the batch.

The mill imparts a final mix to fully incorporate filler and to cool material. Then the material is stripped from the mill a strip form. The strip form is fed by means of conveyor belt into compounder which may be an extruder. The compounder serves to clean and form the material for packaging. The material can be packaged and boxed through an automated cut weigh and packaging system.

The feed system and method of the invention can be used in conjunction with a process to produce a heat cured rubber HCR . An HCR composition can be produced by kneading a high viscosity polydiorganosiloxane the inorganic filler and additives by means of a batch kneading machine such as a high intensity Banbury mixer or a low intensity double arm dough mixer. In this process polydiorganosiloxane inorganic filler treating agents and additives are batch mixed until desired properties are obtained. In Kasahara et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 198 171 a preconcentrate of polydiorganosiloxane inorganic filler and treating agents is formed by a high speed mechanical shearing mixer. The resulting premix is further compounded in a same direction double screw extruder. The premix is formed in a first step wherein a diorganopolysiloxane having a viscosity at 25 C. of 1 10cP or more an inorganic filler and a treating agent are mixed in a high speed mechanical shearing machine to provide a flowable particulate mixture in which each ingredient is present in a substantially uniform finely dispersed state. The flowable particulate mixture is then fed at a constant feed rate into a kneading and extruding machine that has two screws rotating in the same direction. A vulcanizing agent or catalyst can be added and the composition heat cured to fabricate silicone rubber moldings such as gaskets medical tubing and computer keypads.

The following Example is illustrative and should not be construed as a limitation on the scope of the claims.

This EXAMPLE is a combined description of press experiments at Schwerdtel US headquarters New Jersey ProSys Corporation Missouri and at GE Silicones Waterford N.Y. Experiments on the shaftless screw conveyor were conducted at GE Silicones Waterford using Martin Sprocket equipment.

A viscous material feed system as schematically illustrated in the drawings included a Schwerdtel S 6 F drum press mounted to Vishay BLH floor scale that measured material flow according to loss of weight. The Schwerdtel S 6 F press included a hydraulic pressure driven cylinder and platen that drives a platen into the 55 gallon drum.

The feed system included a feed tube to receive material expressed from a drum by the press and a pneumatic solenoid operated cutting apparatus that metered material from the feed tube to a 12 24 shaftless screw conveyor according to loss of weight sensed by a programmed logic computer PLC from the scale. The screw conveyor interfaced to a chute. The chute permitted material to fall via gravity directly to a Banbury mixer. Material remaining in the chute was cleared by a pneumatic pusher prior to each mix GE design and fabrication . The system initiation was controlled by operators at two 2 QuickPanel LM90 touch screens.

In operation an operator first entered a cut portion amount and a set point into a system controller that included the PLC. The set point represented a target batch of silicone gum to be charged to a Banbury mixer which was part of a silicone gum compounding system. In this EXAMPLE the cut portion amount was a target 25 pounds.

A pallet of four 4 fifty five 55 gallon drums of polymer Viscosity Range 150 000 to 900 000 Poise was placed on the drum carousel. The 55 gallon straight sided steel drums were delivered by the carousel and one drum was loaded into the Schwerdtel S 6 F drum press using an Easy Lift Equipment Drum Hauler unit. The Schwerdtel S 6 F drum press was controlled by a GE Fanuc 90 30 PLC. Material was then displaced from the drum to the feed tube by the hydraulic Schwerdtel gum press.

The operator pressed a START OR RESTART BATCH button of the controller to commence operation. As the screw conveyor started turning the hydraulically driven press platen commenced traveling down into the drum. As platen traversed the drum drum contents were squeezed upward into the feed tube. As the platen completed traversing the drum axis all material was forced upward into the feed tube. As material exited the feed tube a pneumatic solenoid operated cutting apparatus cut the material into 25 pound pieces that then fell into a 12 24 shaftless screw conveyor to charge to a Banbury mixer. The pneumatic solenoid operated cutting apparatus included a tensioned cutting wire that was monitored by the PLC to terminate the cutting wire system with loss of tension.

A batch of material flow from conveyor to the Banbury mixer was measured by loss of weight detected by the Vishay BLH load cells. A combined weight of presses feed tubes cutting mechanisms and material containing drums was registered by the control system as a First weight. The control system monitored a charged weight of silicone gum to the Banbury by registering progressing weight as silicone gum was pressed from the drums and expelled through the feed tubes and cutting apparatus. The control system displayed a differential between the first weight and registered progressive weights that represented a charged silicone gum weight. As the charged silicone gum weight was within 15 pounds of the set point the rate of cutting was increased to cut smaller gum portions. The smaller gum portions enabled a system operator to observe a progressing approach to the set point. The operator monitored the differential weight and terminated the batch operation when the differential weight registered within a 2 pound range of the set point.

The EXAMPLE illustrates control of material charge to a compounding system according to a cutting apparatus of the invention.

The invention includes changes and alterations that fall within the purview of the following claims. The foregoing examples are merely illustrative of the invention serving to illustrate only some of the features of the present invention. For example the invention includes a controller with a set of instructions to refer to a look up data base to determine a set point for a material to be charged to a compounding system sensing an initial combined weight of a material extracting apparatus and a container with material signaling commencement of the material extracting apparatus operation to evacuate the material from the container sensing a progressing combined weight of the material extracting apparatus and the container with material calculating a charged material weight according to a difference between the initial combined weight and the sensed progressing combined weight and terminating the material extracting apparatus operation when a calculated charged material weight is within a specified range of the set point.

The appended claims are intended to claim the invention as broadly as it has been conceived and the examples herein presented are illustrative of selected embodiments from a manifold of all possible embodiments. Accordingly it is Applicants intention that the appended claims are not to be limited by the choice of examples utilized to illustrate features of the present invention.

As used in the claims the word comprises and its grammatical variants logically also subtend and include phrases of varying and differing extent such as for example but not limited thereto consisting essentially of and consisting of. 

Where necessary ranges have been supplied those ranges are inclusive of all sub ranges there between. Such ranges may be viewed as a Markush group or groups consisting of differing pairwise numerical limitations which group or groups is or are fully defined by its lower and upper bounds increasing in a regular fashion numerically from lower bounds to upper bounds. It is to be expected that variations in these ranges will suggest themselves to a practitioner having ordinary skill in the art and where not already dedicated to the public those variations should where possible be construed to be covered by the appended claims.

It is also anticipated that advances in science and technology will make equivalents and substitutions possible that are not now contemplated by reason of the imprecision of language and these variations should also be construed where possible to be covered by the appended claims.

All United States patents and patent applications referenced herein are herewith and hereby specifically incorporated by reference in their entirety as though set forth in full.

