---

title: Multi-display system and method supporting differing accesibility feature selection
abstract: A multi-display system and method supporting differing accessibility feature selection provides a suitable display for a user with limited visual acuity, while providing a second display having a different accessibility feature set to a second user. An application or operating system checks selected accessibility features and display settings corresponding to each graphical display device and generates multiple graphical outputs in conformity with program output and the corresponding accessibility features and display settings for each device. One graphical display may be a personal computer display and the other a projector, so that an accessible desktop can be presented to the presenter, while the presentation can be shown with a desired set of attributes. The operating system may support the above-described operation by generating the multiple display outputs from the accessibility settings and a single program output. Alternatively, an application can generate two display outputs in conformity with accessibility selections.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08839105&OS=08839105&RS=08839105
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08839105
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061201
---
The present invention relates generally to computer systems with multiple graphical displays and more particularly to a multi display system and method supporting differing accessibility features for each graphical display of a computer system.

Multi monitor support is included in most present day operating systems and the use of multiple monitors across a single computer desktop is becoming increasingly prevalent. Accessibility features with respect to a computer graphical display an in particular to present day computer display desktops include features such as contrast color set font size line widths and other visual display characteristics that can provide enhanced visibility for persons with some level of visual impairment. For example a person with a particular form of color blindness can adjust their desktop settings to select a particular color scheme that uses colors that they are able to distinguish. As another example a person with partial blindness can select large fonts for the display of text.

However present operating systems and applications typically use a uniform set of accessibility characteristics across all graphical displays whether they represent portions of a desktop or show the same desktop. In some instances a computer system user with limited visual acuity may need to view the same desktop or the same application output screen as another user having differing visual acuity. While each user may have their own monitor using present technology the settings of the desktop or application would have to be changed for both users in order to accommodate the user with limited visual acuity.

Therefore it would be desirable to provide a multi display computer system and method for providing differing graphical display accessibility feature selections on separate graphical displays that are displaying the same information.

The objective of providing differing accessibility feature selection in an multi display environment is achieved in a computer system and method. The method is a method of operation of the computer system and may be embodied in program instructions stored in memory or on a storage media for carrying out the steps of the method when executed by one or more processors within the computer system.

The computer system includes at least two graphical displays displaying the same program output displays but having differing accessibility feature set selections. The differing program output displays can be generated by an application program that is aware of the multiple displays and their corresponding accessibility settings. Alternatively the output for each display device be generated by an operating system that is aware of accessibility settings for each display device and generates the output from a single program output information set provided by an application or another operating system component in conformity with the different accessibility and other display settings.

The application or operating system may first detect whether or not multi display support is enabled and generate display output in conformity a default set of accessibility settings if multi display support is not enabled. The multiple graphical display devices may be a personal display of a presenter and a presentation projector so that a presenter with limited visual acuity can be provided with an accessible display while the presentation projector displays the presentation with the desired presentation characteristics.

The foregoing and other objectives features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following more particular description of the preferred embodiment of the invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

The present invention concerns a methodology and programs for providing accessible graphical display output from a computer system to a user having limited visual acuity while providing another simultaneous graphical display output with a different set of accessibility features or with a standard feature set. Users having different visual preferences or needs can thereby simultaneously view the same information. Also if a presentation projector is used the presenter s display can be provided with enhanced accessibility without affecting the presentation output.

With reference now to the figures and in particular with reference to there is depicted a block diagram of a personal computer system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Personal computer may be a notebook computer or a workstation and includes a processor coupled to a memory for storing program instructions for execution by processor and data values manipulated by the program instructions. An optical drive is coupled to processor and memory for reading optical media including computer program products comprising program instructions in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Processor and memory are also coupled to a display adapter that supports multiple graphical displays. Alternatively multiple display adapters may be provided to support each of multiple graphical display outputs.

If personal computer system is a notebook computer one of the graphical displays may be an internal liquid crystal display LCD or other suitable integrated display type and a second external monitor B which may be a projector is attached by an analog or digital video display connector such as a video graphics array VGA connector or digital visual interface DVI connector. If personal computer system is a workstation computer displays A and B will generally both be external display devices such as external LCD monitors. External monitor B may be a projector such as a presentation projector having a VGA or DVI input connection.

Referring now to an organization of software within memory is shown to illustrate various embodiments of the present invention. An operating system manages one or more applications which may be application components of operating system as well. In one embodiment of the present invention an application generates multiple graphical display outputs in conformity with accessibility settings stored in memory and provides those outputs to the corresponding graphical display devices. Generally operating system will provide the application programming interfaces APIs that support output to the various graphical display devices APIs that can be used by application to query display device characteristics the number of display devices connected and other device specific information. For example in the illustration operating system provides device context A and B when the corresponding graphical display devices A and B are requested for output by application . Device contexts A and B abstract display devices A and B so that application can generate graphical display output to display devices A and B in a device independent manner.

However in one embodiment of the invention application uses accessibility settings associated with each of display devices A and B so that when a non default accessibility feature set is selected for one or both of display devices A and B application generates different output for device context A than for device context B so that the accessibility features are reflected in the resultant program output as displayed on display devices A and B. Since application program has access to graphical output APIs that set color draw shapes and text application program has the ability to generate different output to each device context A B.

Alternatively in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention operating system may abstract display devices A and B to include the accessibility settings in the operation of device contexts A and B so that application can provide a single program output to operating system or write the same program output to device contexts A and B and operating system then generates the display output provided to display devices A and B so that selected accessibility settings are reflected in the resulting program output as displayed on display devices A and B.

While present operating systems provide for differing display resolutions sizes and color palette depth they do not provide for selection of different user preferences for each monitor such as different color sets contrast settings and selection of font size relative to the display resolution. The present invention either by action of application directly and distinctly upon each device context A B or by action of an improved operating system that includes in the device context specification the selection of such accessibility features on a per display device basis provides for complete control of display device accessibility selection for each display device in the system. Selection of the accessibility settings may be via a control panel or selection pane provided by application or via extension to the graphical display selection generally provided by an operating system desktop control panel. For example in WINDOWS a product of Microsoft Corporation the desktop graphical display device settings can be modified to include a separate tab for each monitor for font sizes color schemes wallpaper contrast and other settings that affect the accessibility of the visual display and that are not part of the standard settable display characteristics i.e. color plane bit depth and screen resolution .

Referring now to a pair of display device A B screens are shown with the same program output displayed with differing accessibility features selected in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention as windows A and B. Display device B has an associated default set of accessibility features selected such as a 96 dpi font size standard windows color scheme standard line widths for window frames etc. and a normal contrast mode. Display device has an associated set of different accessibility features selected such as Large fonts of 120 dpi size a monochrome color scheme wide line width for window frames etc. and a high contrast mode. Table I below lists accessibility features that can be made selectable and possible selection values.

Referring now to a method in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention is shown in a flowchart. First if multi monitor support is not available decision or not enabled decision then the program output content is processed according to the default monitor settings and displayed step . Otherwise if multi monitor support is available decision and enabled decision then the program output content is processed for each display separately. Each display is associated with user settable display settings and accessibility features step and if the settings features are other than the default decision then the program output content is processed according to the settings features step for each display and the display is generated. The processing is repeated for each display until the last display has been updated step . If any of the displays are set to the default settings and features then the content is processed according to the default settings step .

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to the preferred embodiment thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the foregoing and other changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

