---

title: Systems, methods, and computer-readable media for providing information regarding communication systems
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer-readable media for accessing information regarding a communication system from a plurality of information sources and providing a consolidated view of the information are provided. A first request to access information regarding the communication system is received. In response to receiving the first request, the information regarding the communication system is retrieved from a plurality of information systems, and a portion of the information retrieved from a first information system of the plurality of information systems is displayed. A second request is received to access a portion of the information retrieved from a second information system of the plurality of information systems including promotional information associated with the communication system. In response to receiving the second request, the portion of the information retrieved from the second information system of the plurality of information systems is displayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07836092&OS=07836092&RS=07836092
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 07836092
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061212
---
The present application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to co pending U.S. provisional application No. 60 800 097 entitled Systems Methods and Computer Readable Media for Analyzing Communication Problems filed on May 12 2006 and which is expressly incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.

The present invention is related to providing information regarding communication systems. More particular the present invention relates to retrieving information regarding a communication system from a plurality of information sources and providing a consolidated view of the retrieved information.

Users of technical devices such as computers and computer related systems often experience technical or operating issues related to those systems which require assistance in identifying the issues as well as a solution to the issues. Often computers and computer related systems are supported by people having technical knowledge and training in assisting customers with questions and issues associated with the systems or related applications. In such situations the customer of the system may contact such a technical support person who with input from the customer may answer the customer s questions and recognize and help solve the system problems.

In order to get a complete picture of a customer and a communication system associated with the customer technical support persons often have to access a plurality of systems and databases one by one to review information provided by the systems and databases about the customer and the associated communication system. Typically such systems and databases provide myriad amounts of information related to a customer and a communication system associated with the customer. In order to find the information needed to assist in handling customer questions and issues related to the communication system the technical support person may be required to access each system and database in turn and filter through all the information associated with the customer and or the communication system that is provided by each of the systems and databases. Moreover each of the information systems may require verification information such as a user name and a password from the technical support person in order to access and retrieve information stored therein. Searching through a multitude of information scattered throughout a plurality of systems and databases each of which requires validation of verification information before allowing access can be a difficult and time consuming task for a technical support person and can inevitably contribute to the technician providing poor customer service by incorrectly answering customer questions and misdiagnosing communication system issues. If the technician can more efficiently access and review information needed to assist in handling customer questions and issues related to the customer and a communication system associated with the customer both the technician and the customer may avoid wasteful and time consuming efforts in solving questions and issues.

In accordance with the present invention the above and other problems are solved by providing methods systems and computer readable media for accessing information regarding a communication system from a plurality of information sources and providing a consolidated view of the information. According to one aspect of the present invention a method is provided for providing information regarding a communication system. The method involves receiving a first request to access information regarding the communication system. In response to receiving the first request the information regarding the communication system is retrieved from a plurality of information systems and a portion of the information retrieved from a first information system of the plurality of information systems is displayed. A second request is received to access a portion of the information retrieved from a second information system of the plurality of information systems including promotional information associated with the communication system. In response to receiving the second request the portion of the information retrieved from the second information system of the plurality of information systems is displayed.

According to another aspect of the present invention a computer readable medium is provided having computer executable instructions stored thereon which when executed by a computer cause the computer to receive a first request to access information regarding the communication system. In response to receiving the first request a first portion of the information regarding the communication system is retrieved from a first information system and displayed. A second request to access a second portion of the information regarding the communication system including promotional information associated with the communication system is received. In response to receiving the second request the second portion of the information regarding the communication system is retrieved from a second information system and displayed.

According to yet another aspect of the present invention a system for providing information regarding a communication system is provided. The system includes a memory device for storing a program for assisting in providing information regarding a communication system and a processor functionally coupled to the memory device and responsive to instructions contained in the program. The program is operative to receive a first request to access information regarding the communication system. In response to receiving the first request the information regarding the communication system is retrieved from a plurality of information systems and a portion of the information retrieved from a first information system of the plurality of information systems is displayed. A second request is received to access a portion of the information retrieved from a second information system of the plurality of information systems including promotional information associated with the communication system. In response to receiving the second request the portion of the information retrieved from the second information system of the plurality of information systems is displayed.

The above described aspects of the invention may also be implemented as a computer controlled apparatus a computer process a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer program product or computer readable medium. The computer program product may be a computer storage media readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. The computer program product may also be a propagated signal on a carrier readable by a computing system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process.

These and various other features as well as advantages which characterize the present invention will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings.

Embodiments of the present invention provide methods systems apparatus and computer readable media for accessing information regarding a communication system from a plurality of information sources and providing a consolidated view of the information. In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements through the several figures aspects of the present invention and the exemplary operating environment will be described.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Turning now to an illustrative operating environment for practicing the various embodiments of the present invention will now be described. In particular a customer may use a communication device to contact and communicate with a customer support technician at a workstation to assist in answering customer questions regarding a communication system associated with the customer as well as identifying and solving one or more problems the customer may be experiencing with the communication system . According to embodiments of the present invention the communication system may include a communication device such as but not limited to a cellular telephone a wireline telephone a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP telephone a WI FI telephone a WiMAX telephone or a personal data assistant PDA a computing device such as but not limited to a general purpose desktop computer a laptop computer a hand held computer or any other device capable of executing one or more application programs or an entertainment device such as but not limited to a television or a digital video recorder DVR . The communication system may also include one or more networks providing services to the communication computing and or entertainment device including but not limited to a cellular network a public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN such as a WI FI network a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN a Wireless Personal Area Network WPAN such as BLUETOOTH a Wireless Metropolitan Area Network WMAN such a WiMAX network a wired Wide Area Network WAN such as the Internet a wired Local Area Network LAN such as the Ethernet a wired Personal Area Network PAN a wired Metropolitan Area Network MAN satellite network a cable network or any combination thereof. For example a customer may contact a customer support technician to report that the customer is not able to access the Internet using her desktop computer.

The communication device used to communicate with a customer support technician may include any device capable of sending and receiving communications including but not limited to a cellular telephone a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS telephone a VoIP telephone a WI FI telephone a WiMAX telephone a computer or a PDA. The technician may receive a communication from the customer using a device similar to the communication device . The communication between the customer and the customer support technician may occur through a telephone call email correspondence text messages instant messages or any other form of communication.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the communication device and the device used by the customer support technician to communicate with the customer may be associated with a network such that communications provided by the communication device of the customer is sent via the network to the communication device used by the technician and vice versa. The network may include a wireless network such as but not limited to a WLAN such as a WI FI network a WWAN a WPAN such as BLUETOOTH a WMAN such a WiMAX network or a cellular network. Alternatively the network may be a wired network such as but not limited to a WAN such as the Internet a LAN such as the Ethernet a PAN or a MAN.

Once a customer support technician is contacted by a customer inquiring about or reporting a problem with a communication system the technician may utilize the workstation to access and use a consolidated information tool CIT program associated with one or more server computers to assist the technician in answering customer questions regarding the communication system associated with the customer as well as identifying and curing problems affecting the communication system of the customer. Although the description provided herein refers to accessing and providing a consolidated view of information concerning a computing device receiving broadband Internet service such as Digital Subscriber Line DSL service or cable modem service it should be appreciated that various embodiments of the present invention may be used to access and provide consolidated information regarding any communication computing or entertainment device receiving service provided by one or more networks as described above.

As shown in a network interconnects the workstation and the server computer . It should be appreciated that the network may comprise any type of wireless computing network including but not limited to a WLAN such as a WI FI network a WWAN a WPAN such as BLUETOOTH a WMAN such a WiMAX network or any type of wired computing network including but not limited to a WAN such as the Internet a LAN such as the Ethernet a PAN or a MAN. The network provides a medium for enabling communication between the workstation the server computer and other computer systems connected to or accessible through the network . In an embodiment of the present invention the workstation may communicate with the server computer through the network to access and utilize the CIT program stored on the server computer as will be discussed in greater detail below.

In an embodiment of the present invention the workstation may include a general purpose desktop laptop or hand held computer capable of executing one or more application programs. In particular according to the various embodiments of the present invention the workstation is operative to execute a web browser application such as the INTERNET EXPLORER browser from MICROSOFT CORPORATION of Redmond Wash. from a mass storage device for retrieving viewing and interacting with content provided by the server computer . In particular the web browser application of the workstation may be operative to retrieve and view content provided by the CIT program to help answer questions and troubleshoot problems reported by a customer as discussed in greater detail below.

The workstation may also include a central processing unit CPU a system memory including a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM and a system bus that couples the system memory to the CPU. The workstation may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus of the workstation. It should be appreciated that the network interface unit may also be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computer systems. The workstation may also include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of other devices including a keyboard mouse scanner digital computer or electronic stylus. Similarly the input output controller of the workstation may provide output to a display screen a printer or other type of output device. It should be understood by those skilled in the art that the CIT program may be stored on and executed from the workstation to assist a technician in answering questions regarding a communication system of a customer and troubleshooting issues affecting the communication system .

The server computer may include a standard server computer capable of providing services to other computing systems such as the workstation over the network . The server computer is operative to store and execute a web server application such as the INTERNET INFORMATION SERVER from MICROSOFT CORPORATION. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other web server applications may also be utilized. In an embodiment of the present invention the web server application may be stored in a mass storage device of the server computer . The web server application is operative to execute the CIT program which may also be stored in the mass storage device and receive and respond to requests from computer systems connected to the network for information and services provided by the CIT program described herein.

The server computer may also include a CPU a system memory including a RAM and a ROM and a system bus that couples the system memory and the mass storage device to the CPU. The CPU of the server computer may be a standard central processor that performs arithmetic and logical operations a more specific purpose programmable logic controller PLC a programmable gate array or other type of processor known to those skilled in the art and suitable for controlling the operation of the server computer. CPUs are well known in the art and therefore not described in further detail herein. The mass storage device is connected to the CPU through a mass storage controller not shown connected to the bus . The mass storage device and its associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage for the sever computer . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the server computer .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM Erasable Programmable ROM EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the server computer .

As discussed above and according to various embodiments of the invention the server computer operates in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computers through the network such as the Internet. The server computer may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . It should be appreciated that the network interface unit may also be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computer systems.

In an embodiment of the present invention the CIT program communicates with a plurality of information systems located external to the server computer to create a complete and consolidated view of a customer to assist in answering customer questions and diagnosing customer communication system problems. In particular when a customer contacts a customer support technician at the workstation with a question or communication system problem the technician may use the workstation to access the CIT program provided by the server computer to receive information regarding the customer and the communication system from one or more information systems through the network . As will be described in further detail below the CIT program sends a request to access information regarding a communication system associated with a particular customer through the network to an information service interface which in an embodiment of the present invention is operative to provide access to the requested information stored on the systems . The information service interface may include any application or device capable of receiving a request for information stored on a plurality of disparate systems and providing access to the requested information including but not limited to a data abstraction layer or a data warehouse. The CIT program may also communicate with an error log database to send and retrieve information regarding successful technician logins to the CIT program as well as information regarding failed login attempts. It should be appreciated that the error log database and the CIT program may communicate over the network or the error log database may be stored in memory associated with the sever computer .

In various embodiments of the present invention the information systems from which requested information is accessed by the CIT program include but are not limited to relation databases mainframe databases departmental databases applications files web services and any combination thereof. It should be appreciated that the systems utilized by the CIT program may be stored on one or more computing systems similar to the server computer . As illustrated in the systems accessed by the CIT program may include but are not limited to a Master Customer Database Call Tracker System MCDB CTS a Services Outage Notification System SONS a Service Order Entry Gateway SOEG system a Repair system such as the EREPAIR SYSTEM from BELLSOUTH CORPORATION of Atlanta Ga. a Customer Relationship Management CRM system a Customer Records Information System CRIS an Appointment Database ADB a Usage database a Customer Premise Equipment CPE database a Loop Qualification Service LQS system and a New Product system . It should be understood that the information systems utilized by the CIT program and described herein are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limit the present invention.

The MCDB CTS may provide a variety of information about customers including data about services and communication systems such as the communication system associated with the customer as well as customer billing information. The MCDB CTS may provide billing information associated with customers for a number of applications including the CIT program and downstream systems and may be the core component on which critical applications such as billing and registration act. In an embodiment of the present invention the customer billing information provided by the MCDB CTS may include secondary bill plan information and information regarding any promotions associated with a customer of a communication system . For example the information from the MCDB CTS may indicate that the customer is utilizing services of the communication system at a promotional rate instead of at a standard rate. The MCDB CTS may also include a session log summarizing each session between a particular customer and technician using the CIT program . As will be discussed in greater detail below in view of when a customer contacts a technician regarding questions or issues with a communication system the technician may supply information about the session with the customer to a notation template provided by the CIT program which in turn may submit all or a portion of the session information from the notation template to the MCDB CTS .

The SONS may provide outage information if any associated with a particular communication system . In particular the SONS may provide a consolidated view of outage time date duration and estimated time to repair. The SONS may be used to determine information regarding dial email and DSL non Broadband gateway outages.

Information regarding service order requests associated with a particular customer or communication system may be provided by the SOEG . Service requests may be automatically provisioned for service using the SOEG . To receive information regarding a service request the SOEG may provide a service request form to be completed by a customer with information regarding a particular request and then submitted to a service group based on the completed information.

In various embodiments of the present invention the Repair system provides information about service order tickets and technician dispatches associated with a particular communication system and provides troubleshooting testing of communication systems such as the communication system to assist in identifying and solving issues with the systems. A service order ticket including information about a customer s service issue may be electronically entered through the repair system . The repair system may also provide repairs for issues associated with problematic systems and provide real time status information regarding all service order tickets.

The CRM system provides detailed customer information such as but not limited to identification and contact information of customers customer type information e.g. residential or business and service and customer premise equipment CPE type associated with customers. The CRM system may be accessed by customers and allow customers to enter new service orders change service orders and disconnect service orders. The service orders entered through the CRM system may be provided to technicians to allow scheduling of appointments associated with orders received through the CRM system . The CRM system may also include a session log including notes taken and results of tests performed during previous sessions with the CIT program regarding the communication system .

In an embodiment of the present invention the CRIS provides customer verification data which the CIT program compares to verification data received from the customer to determine whether to allow a login or email password associated with the communication system of the customer to be reset an email alias or an email mailbox to be added to the system or passwords associated with the system to be matched per a request from the customer.

Information regarding appointments associated with a communication system of a customer may be provided by the ADB . According to various embodiments of the present invention an appointment includes a scheduled dispatch of one or more technicians. For example an appointment may be scheduled to repair issues associated with CPE. The appointment information provided by the ADP may include information identifying a particular appointment of interest information about the organization handling each appointment associated with a communication system notes provided by a technician during a completed appointment and scheduling information about when appointments are to occur.

The Usage database provides the CIT program with information illustrating customer usage of a communication system including when a customer is using the communication system as well as how long and how often the customer is using the communication system . The usage information may be gathered from a multitude of communication system devices such as for example routers switches gateways and servers and may be used to determine billing for customer use of the communication system .

The CPE database may provide information regarding CPE associated with a customer. In an embodiment of the present invention the information provided by the CPE database includes a log of all or a portion of all CPE associated with a customer identification information regarding the customer associated with the CPE and information identifying the CPE. Moreover if the CPE associated with the customer is a new order the CPE database may provide status information indicating whether the CPE has shipped dates of when the CPE was ordered and shipped destination information indicating where the CPE was shipped and tracking information to determine a current location of the CPE. The tracking information may be provided to the CPE database by a carrier company handling shipment of the CPE and may be used to access further destination information provided by the carrier company. The CPE database may further include information regarding authorization and processing of CPE returns.

The LQS system provides information indicating whether a communication system associated with a customer supports particular communication services. For example the LQS system may provide information about the ability of a customer telephone line to support DSL. The information provided by the LQS system may be provided to the SOEG for the initiation and processing of service orders.

Information regarding products and services of a communication system used by a customer but which are not yet accounted for in data associated with a provider may be provided by the New Product system . For example when a product or service is being trialed or when a third party provides the product or service the provider of the communication system may not have information about the product or service. To retrieve information about such trial or third party products and services associated with the communication system of a customer the New Product system may contact trial product databases which include information regarding trial and beta products and services and third party databases which include information about products and services provided by a third party through an application programming interface API . The information regarding trial and beta products retrieved from trial product databases and third party databases may include a product name a product type an order status a date when the product was provisioned activated terminated and or downloaded. The New Product system may also provide information regarding secondary billing plans associated with a customer as well as information regarding any promotions associated with the customer or communication system of the customer.

According to embodiments of the present invention the CIT program may be integrated with collaboration software such as GROOVE VIRTUAL OFFICE software. By using the CIT program in combination with collaboration software entities located remotely from a technician using a workstation to access the CIT program such as but not limited to other technicians customers call centers outside experts and vendors may be able to view graphical user interfaces provided by the CIT program via workstations associated with each of the entities. The remotely located entities may be able to discuss and debate issues with the technician accessing the CIT program to assist in providing a consolidated view of a customer and systems associated with a customer.

Referring now to additional details regarding the CIT program will be described. When a customer contacts a technician regarding questions or issues with a communication system the technician may access the CIT program executed by the server computer and request retrieval of information about the customer and the communication system to assist with the customer questions and issues. Upon receiving a request to retrieve information about a particular customer and or communication system the CIT program may access an information categories list associated with the program create one or more requests including one or more information categories of the list based on the request received from the technician and send the one or more requests to the information service layer for retrieval of the information identified by the one or more information categories from the information systems . It should be appreciated that the information categories associated with the CIT program and described herein are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limit the present invention.

Each of the information categories may include request information identifying information to be retrieved from the information systems . The information identified by each of the information categories to be retrieved from the information systems may be information most frequently used to assist customers with questions and issues regarding the communication system . According to various embodiments of the present invention the call tracker information category identifies information to be retrieved from the CTS of the MCDB CTS the qualification information category identifies information to be retrieved from the LQS the trouble ticket information category identifies information to be retrieved from the Repair system the service order information category identifies information to be retrieved from the SOEG system the outage information category identifies information to be retrieved from the SONS the appointment information identifies information to be retrieved from the ADB the customer records information category identifies information to be retrieved from the CRIS the customer service information category identifies information to be retrieved from the CRM the email information category identifies information to be retrieved from the MCDB of the MCDB CTS the CPE information category identifies information to be retrieved from the CPE database the usage information category identifies information to be retrieved from the Usage database and the new product promotional information category identifies information to be retrieved from the New Product system .

In an embodiment of the present invention the information categories may also include information identifying which of the information systems to be accessed to retrieve the request information identified by the information category. In a further embodiment upon receipt of a request provided by the CIT program the information service layer may determine which of the information systems to access to retrieve requested information. For example when the CIT program receives a request for outage information regarding a communication system of a customer the CIT program may access the information categories list analyze the request to determine one or more information categories of the information category list related to outage information e.g. the outage information category and create a request including request information from the outage information category which in an embodiment of the present invention includes a request for information identifying all outage occurrences associated with the communication system a start date and estimated time of restoration ETR associated with each outage occurrence an outage type associated with each occurrence and an outage status associated with each occurrence.

In an embodiment of the present invention and as will be discussed in greater detail in view of an initial request received by the CIT program to retrieve information associated with a customer and a communication system may include identification information associated with the customer requesting assistance with a question or problem associated with the communication system . The identification information may include a telephone number associated with a customer an email address associated with a customer physical address associated with a customer a username and password associated with a customer or any other information which uniquely identifies a customer of a communication system . In an embodiment of the present invention upon receiving the initial request the CIT program may create a request to be sent to the information service layer requesting information identified by each of the information categories to be retrieved from one or more of the information systems . Once the requested information is received from the one or more information systems associated with the information service layer the CIT program may display a portion of the requested information via the workstation and store the remaining portions of the requested information for display upon receiving requests for the remaining portions of the request information. The remaining requested information may be stored in memory associated with the server computer or in memory associated with the information service layer . Thus in response to the initial request all information identified by the information categories may be retrieved from one or more of the information systems and a portion of the retrieved information displayed while the remaining portions of retrieved information may be stored and then displayed upon specific request.

In a further embodiment of the present invention upon receiving the initial request the CIT program may create a request to be sent to the information service layer requesting initial customer information identified by one or more of the information categories to be retrieved from one or more of the information systems . When the requested information is received from one or more of the information systems associated with the information service layer the CIT program may display the requested information. The CIT program may then receive a request for specific information such as a request for service order information associated with a communication system of a customer. In response the CIT program may access the information category list analyze the request to determine one or more information categories of the information category list related to service order information e.g. the service order information category and create a request including information from the service order information category to be retrieved from one or more of the information systems . Therefore in response to the initial request a portion of information identified by the information categories may be retrieved and displayed while remaining portions of the information may be retrieved and displayed upon specific request.

Turning now to graphical user interfaces GUIs provided by the CIT program during a session to assist in answering customer questions and troubleshooting customer issues will be described. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the layout and design of the interfaces as well as the use of radio buttons slide bars drop down menu generators and selection buttons provided by the CIT program and described herein are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limit the present invention. When a technician at the workstation receives a call from a customer having questions regarding a communication system or experiencing a problem with the communication system supported by the technician the technician may access the CIT program by providing a universal resource locator URL address associated with the CIT program at the workstation. In response the server computer may execute the CIT program which may provide a login GUI to the workstation through the network for receiving technician or other user verification information as illustrate in .

In an embodiment of the present invention the login GUI provides a login name field and a password field for receiving verification information associated with a customer support technician or other user attempting to access the CIT program . Upon selection of a go button provided by the login GUI the received verification information may be compared with a list of customer support technicians authorized to access the CIT program to determine whether the received verification information matches one of the authorized technicians. If the received verification information is determined to be valid then the CIT program may provide a CIT help desk GUI as discussed below in view of . However if the received verification information is determined to be invalid then the CIT program may provide an indication on the login GUI that the verification information has failed as well as a request for the technician or other user to attempt login again. A technician may select a clear button to delete the failed verification information from the login name field and the password field so that further verification information may be provided. As will be discussed in greater detail below the CIT program may only allow a predetermined number of login attempts by a technician before the technician is locked out of accessing the CIT program. The login GUI may also include a first hyperlink which when selected assists a technician who has forgotten his her login name by sending a copy of the login name to the technician and a second hyperlink which when selected assists a technician who has forgotten his her password by sending a copy of the password to the technician.

Referring now to if the verification information provided by the technician is valid then the CIT program may provide a CIT help desk GUI having one or more blank fields. In an embodiment of the present invention the CIT help desk GUI provides an identification field for receiving information identifying a customer reporting a question or problem associated with a communication system and or information identifying the communication system associated with the customer. The identification information received at the identification field may include a telephone number associated with a customer an email address associated with a customer physical address associated with a customer a username and password associated with a customer or any other information which uniquely identifies a customer of a communication system . The CIT help desk GUI may also provide a search button which when selected causes an initial request to retrieve information associated with the identification information received at the identification field to be provided to the CIT program . In response to receiving the initial request the CIT program may retrieve and display all or a portion of the requested information as further described below in view of . The CIT help desk GUI may also include a clear button which when selected deletes all or a portion of all of the information displayed by the CIT help desk GUI and in an embodiment of the present invention ends the current CIT session so that requested information associated with another customer and or communication system may be displayed.

According to various embodiments of the present invention the CIT help desk GUI further includes a contact information portion a presentation view portion and a technical notation template portion as illustrated in . The contact information portion may include information fields for displaying information retrieved from one or more of the information systems in response to the initial request. In particular the contact information portion may include a customer name field customer type field customer address field customer service type field CPE type field static IP field and tech type field for displaying information retrieved from the CRM system in response to the initial request. User email identification information from the MCDB CTS may be displayed in the user identification field of the contact information portion in response to the initial request and customer verification information from the CRIS may be displayed in the social security number last four digits field three digit code field and authorization phrase and answer fields in response to the initial request.

In an embodiment of the present invention the contact information portion also includes one or more hyperlinks which when selected cause a request for information associated with the hyperlink to be provided to the CIT program . In response to receiving the request the CIT program may retrieve the requested information from one or more of the information systems and display the requested information in a display of the presentation view portion as will be discussed in greater detail below. In an embodiment of the present invention the hyperlinks of the contact information portion include a CRM Data hyperlink a SOEG Data hyperlink an Outage Data hyperlink a DAD Data hyperlink a CPE Data hyperlink a Repair Data hyperlink a View Product hyperlink a Reset Login Password hyperlink an Add Alias hyperlink an Add Mailbox hyperlink a Reset Email Password hyperlink and a Match Password hyperlink. It should be appreciated that the hyperlinks and information to be retrieved associated with each of the hyperlinks described herein are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limit the present invention.

The presentation view portion of the CIT help desk GUI may display requested information retrieved from one or more of the information systems . In an embodiment of the present invention the information displayed by the presentation view portion changes based on requests received by the CIT program . For example when an initial request generated from receipt of identification information at the identification field and selection of the search button is received by the CIT program the program may access notes provided by the CRM system summarizing previous CIT sessions associated with the received identification information and display the notes in a first display of the presentation view portion . When one of the hyperlinks provided by the contact information portion such as the SOEG data hyperlink is selected a request for information regarding service order requests associated with a communication system is provided to the CIT program . In response the CIT program may access service order request information provided by the SOEG system and temporarily replace the first display of the presentation view portion including notes provided by the CRM system with a second display including service order request information provided by the SOEG system.

The presentation view portion may also include a view CRM notes hyperlink which when selected replaces whatever information is being displayed in the presentation view portion with the first display including session notes provided by the CRM system . In an embodiment of the present invention the presentation view portion may further include a troubleshoot issue button which when selected provides a troubleshooting tool to assist in identifying and diagnosing a problem associated with a communication system of a customer as discussed in greater detail in view of .

The technical notation template of the CIT help desk GUI may comprise one or more fields for receiving information from one or more of the information systems as well as one or more fields for receiving notes from a technician or one or more of the information systems a CIT session regarding a communication system . In particular the technical notation template may include an agent information field for receiving identification information regarding the technician utilizing the CIT program to assist a customer customer information fields for receiving customer information from the CRM system in response to receipt of an initial request customer issue fields for receiving input from the technician regarding the types of problems reported by a customer and resolution types associated with the problems notes provided by the technician during the CIT session and notes provided by a troubleshooting tool accessed during the CIT session and callback information fields for receiving information from the technician if any regarding contacting a customer after the CIT session. When a CIT session is ended either by selection of the clear button or a logout link provided by the CIT help desk GUI all or a portion of the information displayed in the technical notation template may be provided to one or more of the information systems for later retrieval. In an embodiment of the present invention information displayed in the technical notation template is provided to the CRM system and the MCDB CTS upon termination of a CIT session.

Turning now to as discussed above when identification information is provided at the identification field and the search button is selected an initial request is provided to the CIT program . In response to the initial request the CIT program may create a request to be sent to the information service layer including the verification information provided by the technician at the login GUI as well as information identified by each of the information categories to be retrieved from one or more of the information systems having the requested information. In an embodiment of the present invention the information service layer validates the verification information with each of the information systems having information associated with the request retrieves the requested information from the information systems and provides all of the requested information to the CIT program or a portion of the requested information from the CRM system the MCDB CTS and the CRIS to the CIT program. If all of the requested information is provided to the CIT program the program may display the requested information from the CRM system the MCDB CTS and the CRIS in response to the initial request and store the remaining portions of the requested information in memory associated with the server computer . Alternatively if only the portion of the requested information from the CRM system the MCDB CTS and the CRIS is provided to the CIT program then the program may display the requested information from the CRM system the MCDB CTS and the CRIS in response to the initial request and the remaining portions of the requested information may be stored in memory associated with the information service layer for later retrieval. In either embodiment the requested information from the CRM system the MCDB CTS and the CRIS is displayed in the contact information portion the first display of the presentation view portion and the technical notation template of the CIT help desk GUI in response to the initial request as illustrated in .

In a further embodiment of the present invention upon receiving the initial request the CIT program may create a request to be sent to the information service layer including the verification information provided by the technician at the login GUI as well as information identified by the MCDB CTS category the customer records information category and the customer service information category to be retrieved from the MCDB CTS the CRIS and the CRM respectively. The information service layer may validate the verification information with the MCDB CTS the CRIS and the CRM retrieve the requested information from the information systems and provide the requested information to the CIT program which then displays the requested information in the contact information portion the first display of the presentation view portion and the technical notation template of the CIT help desk GUI in response to the initial request as shown in .

Turning now to as noted above if one of the hyperlinks provided by the contact information portion of the CIT help desk GUI is selected the first display including information regarding previous CIT sessions associated with the communication system may be temporarily replaced with additional displays of information associated with the selected hyperlink. In particular as shown in when the CRM Data hyperlink of the contact information portion is selected a request for further customer information is provided to the CIT program . If information identified by all of the information categories was retrieved in response to the initial request and stored in memory associated with either the information service layer or the server computer the CIT program may access the further customer information from the memory and display the further customer information in a second display of the presentation view portion in response to the selection of the CRM data hyperlink as illustrated in .

If information identified by all of the information categories was not retrieved in response to the initial request then in response to receiving the request for further customer information the CIT program may access the information categories list analyze the request to determine one or more information categories of the information category list related to the requested further customer information e.g. the customer service information category create a request including the verification information provided at the login GUI and information identified by the customer service information category to be retrieved from one or more of the information systems and forward the request to the information service layer . In an embodiment of the present invention the information identified by the customer service information category to be retrieved includes a request for information identifying status of CPE associated with the customer a service request form number of a service order request associated with the customer or communication system of the customer appointment date and status associated with the customer or communication system state and status of an account associated with the customer installation type associated with the service order request identification information regarding paths over which data is transported through the communication system and subnet information associated with the communication system . The request created by the CIT program may also include information identifying which of the information systems should be accessed to retrieve the requested further customer information.

Upon receipt of the request the information service layer may determine to access the CRM system to retrieve the requested further customer information retrieve the requested information from the CRM system and provide the requested information to the CIT program . According to various embodiments of the present invention the CIT program receives the requested further customer information from the information service layer and displays the further customer information in the second display of the presentation view portion in response to the selection of the CRM Data hyperlink as illustrated in .

Referring now to when the SOEG Data hyperlink of the contact information portion is selected a request for service order request information associated with a communication system may be provided to the CIT program . If information identified by all of the information categories was retrieved in response to the initial request and stored in memory associated with either the information service layer or the server computer the CIT program may access the service order request information from the memory and display the service order request information in a third display of the presentation view portion in response to the selection of the SOEG Data hyperlink as illustrated in .

If information identified by all of the information categories was not retrieved in response to the initial request then in response to receiving the request for service order request information the CIT program may access the information categories list analyze the request to determine one or more information categories of the information category list related to the requested service order request information e.g. the service order information category create a request including the verification information provided at the login GUI and information identified by the service order information category to be retrieved from one or more of the information systems and forward the request to the information service layer . In an embodiment of the present invention the information identified by the service order information category to be retrieved includes a request for all service request form numbers associated with the communication system status information associated with each of the request form numbers CPE status information associated with each of the request form numbers data service type information associated with each of the request from numbers request type information associated with each of the request form numbers due date information associated with service order of each of the request form numbers and identification information regarding paths over which data is transported through the communication system . The request created by the CIT program may also include information identifying which of the information systems should be accessed to retrieve the requested service order request information.

Upon receipt of the request the information service layer may determine to access the SOEG system to retrieve the requested service order request information retrieve the requested information from the SOEG system and provide the requested information to the CIT program . According to various embodiments of the present invention the CIT program receives the requested service order request information from the information service layer and displays the service order request information in the third display of the presentation view portion in response to the selection of the SOEG Data hyperlink as illustrated in . The third display may include a drop down menu generator associated with the service request form numbers to select one of the numbers associated with the communication system .

Turning now to when the Outage Data hyperlink of the contact information portion is selected a request for outage information associated with a communication system may be provided to the CIT program . If information identified by all of the information categories was retrieved in response to the initial request and stored in memory associated with either the information service layer or the server computer the CIT program may access the outage information from the memory and display the outage information in a fourth display of the presentation view portion in response to the selection of the Outage Data hyperlink as illustrated in .

If information identified by all of the information categories was not retrieved in response to the initial request then in response to receiving the request for outage information associated with the communication system the CIT program may access the information categories list analyze the request to determine one or more information categories of the information category list related to the requested outage information e.g. the outage information category create a request including the verification information provided at the login GUI and information identified by the outage information category to be retrieved by one or more of the information systems and forward the request to the information service layer . In an embodiment of the present invention the information identified by the outage information category to be retrieved includes a request for all outages associated with the communication system a start date and ETR associated with each outage outage type information associated with each outage and outage status information. The request created by the CIT program may also include information identifying which of the information systems should be accessed to retrieve the requested outage information.

Upon receipt of the request the information service layer may determine to access the SONS to retrieve the requested outage information retrieve the requested information from the SONS system and provide the requested information to the CIT program . According to various embodiments of the present invention the CIT program receives the requested outage information from the information service layer and displays the outage information in the fourth display of the presentation view portion in response to the selection of the Outage Data hyperlink as illustrated in . The fourth display may include a drop down menu generator associated with the identified outages to select one of the outages associated with the communication system .

Turning now to when the DAD Data hyperlink of the contact information portion is selected a request for appointment information associated with a communication system may be provided to the CIT program . If information identified by all of the information categories was retrieved in response to the initial request and stored in memory associated with either the information service layer or the server computer the CIT program may access the appointment information from the memory and display the appointment information in a fifth display of the presentation view portion in response to the selection of the DAD Data hyperlink as illustrated in .

If information identified by all of the information categories was not retrieved in response to the initial request then in response to receiving the request for appointment information associated with the communication system the CIT program may access the information categories list analyze the request to determine one or more information categories of the information category list related to the requested appointment information e.g. the appointment information category create a request including the verification information provided at the login GUI and information identified by the appointment information category to be retrieved from one or more of the information systems and forward the request to the information service layer . In an embodiment of the present invention the information identified by the appointment information category to be retrieved includes a request for all appointments associated with a communication system of the customer information regarding an organization handling each of the appointments a close code associated with each of the appointments installer notes associated with each of the appointments and date and time associated with each of the appointments. The request created by the CIT program may also include information identifying which of the information systems should be accessed to retrieve the requested appointment data.

Upon receipt of the request the information service layer may determine to access the ADB to retrieve the requested appointment information retrieve the requested information from the ADB and provide the requested information to the CIT program . According to various embodiments of the present invention the CIT program receives the requested appointment information from the information service layer and displays the appointment information in the fifth display of the presentation view portion in response to the selection of the DAD Data hyperlink as illustrated in . The fifth display may include a drop down menu generator associated with the identified appointments to select one of the appointments associated with the communication system .

Turning now to when the CPE Data hyperlink of the contact information portion is selected a request for CPE information associated with a customer may be provided to the CIT program . If information identified by all of the information categories was retrieved in response to the initial request and stored in memory associated with either the information service layer or the server computer the CIT program may access the CPE information from the memory and display the CPE information in a sixth display of the presentation view portion in response to the selection of the CPE Data hyperlink as illustrated in .

If information identified by all of the information categories was not retrieved in response to the initial request then in response to receiving the request for CPE information associated with the customer the CIT program may access the information categories list analyze the request to determine one or more information categories of the information category list related to the requested CPE information e.g. the CPE information category create a request including the verification information provided at the login GUI and information identified by the CPE information category to be retrieved from one or more of the information systems and forward the request to the information service layer . In an embodiment of the present invention the information identified by the CPE information category to be retrieved includes a request for a record number associated with each CPE of a customer customer identification information information identifying the CPE of a customer status information regarding the CPE of a customer order and ship data associated with the CPE information identifying where the CPE shipped serial numbers associated with the CPE tracking information regarding the CPE and returned merchandise authorization RMA information associated with the CPE. The request created by the CIT program may also include information identifying which of the information systems should be accessed to retrieve the requested CPE information.

Upon receipt of the request the information service layer may determine to access the CPE database to retrieve the requested CPE information retrieve the requested information from the CPE database and provide the requested information to the CIT program . According to various embodiments of the present invention the CIT program receives the requested CPE information from the information service layer and displays the CPE information in the sixth display of the presentation view portion in response to selection of the CPE Data hyperlink as illustrated in . The sixth display may include a drop down menu generator associated with the record numbers of the CPE of the customer to select one of the record numbers.

Referring now to when the Repair Data hyperlink of the contact information portion is selected a request for repair information associated with a communication system may be provided to the CIT program . If information identified by all of the information categories was retrieved in response to the initial request and stored in memory associated with either the information service layer or the server computer the CIT program may access the repair information from the memory and display the repair information in a seventh display of the presentation view portion in response to the selection of the Repair Data hyperlink as illustrated in .

If information identified by all of the information categories was not retrieved in response to the initial request then in response to receiving the request for repair information associated with the communication system the CIT program may access the information categories list analyze the request to determine one or more information categories of the information category list related to the requested repair information e.g. the Trouble Ticket information category create a request including the verification information provided at the login GUI and information identified by the Trouble Ticket information category to be retrieved from one or more of the information systems and forward the request to the information service layer . In an embodiment of the present invention the information identified by the Trouble Ticket information category to be retrieved includes a request for all trouble ticket numbers associated with the communication system information identifying an element of the communication system experiencing trouble date information when trouble reported description of the reported trouble status of each trouble ticket and data when status provided indication whether trouble of each trouble ticket resolved resolution and date of resolution for each trouble ticket and agent identification information associated with each trouble ticket. The request created by the CIT program may also include information identifying which of the information systems should be accessed to retrieve the requested repair information.

Upon receipt of the request the information service layer may determine to access the repair system to retrieve the requested repair information retrieve the requested information from the repair system and provide the requested information to the CIT program . According to various embodiments of the present invention the CIT program receives the requested repair information from the information service layer and displays the repair information in the seventh display of the presentation view portion in response to the selection of the Repair Data hyperlink as illustrated in . The seventh display may include a drop down menu generator associated with the trouble tickets of the communication system to allow selection of one of the trouble tickets.

Turning now to when the View Product hyperlink of the contact information portion is selected a request for product and billing information associated with a customer may be provided to the CIT program . If information identified by all of the information categories was retrieved in response to the initial request and stored in memory associated with either the information service layer or the server computer the CIT program may access the product and billing information from the memory and display the product and billing information in a eighth display of the presentation view portion in response to the selection of the View Product hyperlink as illustrated in .

If information identified by all of the information categories was not retrieved in response to the initial request then in response to receiving the request for product and billing information associated with the customer the CIT program may access the information categories list analyze the request to determine one or more information categories of the information category list related to the requested product and billing information e.g. the new product promotional information category create a request including the verification information provided at the login GUI and information identified by the new product promotional information category to be retrieved from one or more of the information systems and forward the request to the information service layer . In an embodiment of the present invention the information identified by the new product promotional information category to be retrieved includes information regarding any trial or beta test products associated with the customer secondary billing plan information associated with the customer and promotional information associated with the customer. The request created by the CIT program may also include information identifying which of the information systems should be accessed to retrieve the requested product and billing information.

Upon receipt of the request the information service layer may determine to access the new product system to retrieve the requested product and billing information retrieve the requested information from the new product system and provide the requested information to the CIT program . According to various embodiments of the present invention the CIT program receives the requested product and billing information from the information service layer and displays the product and billing information in the eighth display of the presentation view portion in response to the selection of the View Product hyperlink as illustrated in .

Referring now to if the troubleshoot issue button in of the presentation view portion is selected the CIT program may provide a troubleshooting tool to assist in identifying and resolving a problem associated with a communication system of a customer as described in detail in U.S. Ser. No. 11 609 640 entitled Methods Systems and Computer Readable Media for Assisting in Troubleshooting filed on Dec. 12 2006 now abandoned and which is expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In response to selection of the troubleshoot issue button the troubleshooting tool of the CIT program may display a troubleshooting tool interface including a troubleshooting question portion for displaying questions based on a troubleshooting methodology associated with the troubleshooting tool to assist in identifying a communication system problem and resolving the problem. The troubleshooting tool interface may also include a testing portion for providing results of tests performed on the communication system based on the troubleshooting methodology as well as a solutions portion for displaying probable solutions to the problem. In an embodiment of the present invention a technician may include notes regarding information provided by the troubleshooting tool in the customer issue fields of the technical notation template . The customer issue fields may also display notes provided by the troubleshooting tool.

Turning now to GUIs provided by the CIT program to assist a customer with resetting passwords adding alias and mailboxes and matching passwords associated with a communication system will now be described. If a customer requests that a password associated with a communication system be reset an alias or mailbox be added or passwords be matched a customer support technician may request that the customer provide verification data to determine if the verification information provided by the customer matches the verification information provided by the CRIS and displayed in the customer verification data fields of the contact information portion . The technician may require that the verification information provided by the customer match the verification information displayed in the contact information portion before taking action to reset a password add an alias or mailbox or match passwords. In an embodiment of the present invention a request to reset a login password or an email password may be initiated by selection of the Reset Login Password hyperlink or the Reset Email Password hyperlink respectively of the contact information portion . A request to add an alias or a mailbox may be initiated by selection of the Add Alias hyperlink or the Add Mailbox hyperlink respectively of the contact information portion and a request to match passwords may be initiated by selection of the Match Password hyperlink of the contact information portion.

If the verification data matches and the Reset Login Password hyperlink is selected the CIT program may provide a Reset Login Password interface for changing a password associated with a communication system of the customer. The Reset Login Password interface may provide a password field for receiving submission of a new password and a verify password field for receiving a repeat submission of the new password to verify the new password as shown in . Once a new password is provided and verified a submit button provided by the Reset Login Password interface may be selected to reset a login password associated with the communication system to the new password. In an embodiment of the present invention the Reset Login Password interface provides instructions regarding passwords including but not limited to instructions regarding case sensitivity of passwords required length of passwords and content of passwords. The Reset Login Password interface may also provide a close window button to close the interface and return to the CIT help desk GUI .

If the verification data matches and the Add Alias hyperlink is selected the CIT program may provide an Add Alias interface for adding an alias to an existing email account associated with a customer. The Add Alias interface may display a list of email identifiers associated with a customer and an alias field for retrieving an alias to be added as shown in . Once the email identifier to which the alias is to be added is selected the alias to be added may be provided in the alias field. The Add Alias interface may also include a submit button for submitting the added alias and a close window button to close the interface and return to the CIT help desk GUI . In an embodiment of the present invention the Add Alias interface further includes criteria regarding an added alias such as for example a required length of the alias.

If the verification data matches and the Add Mailbox hyperlink is selected the CIT program may provide an Add Mailbox interface for adding a mailbox to an account associated with a customer. The Add Mailbox interface may provide a listing of current mailboxes associated with the customer including an email identifier and size associated with each mailbox as shown in . An email address field for receiving an email address to be associated with an added mailbox a password field for receiving a password associated with the added mailbox and a verify password field for receiving a repeat submission of the password associated with the added mailbox to verify the password may also be provided by the Add Mailbox interface . The Add Mailbox interface may also include a submit button for submitting the added mailbox information and a close window button to close the interface and return to the CIT help desk GUI . In an embodiment of the present invention the Add Mailbox interface may further provide information regarding the new mailbox including but not limited to costs associated with adding a new mailbox information regarding what is provided when a new mailbox is added and instructions regarding length requirements for the email address and password case sensitivity regarding the password and content of the password.

If the verification data matches and the Reset Email Password hyperlink is selected the CIT program may provide a Reset Email Password interface for resetting an email password associated with an existing email account of a customer. The Reset Email Password interface may display a list of email identifiers associated with a customer a password field for receiving submission of a new password once one of the email identifiers for which the new password is to be associated is selected from the list of email identifiers and a verify password field for receiving a repeat submission of the new password to verify the new password as shown in . Once a new password is provided and verified a submit button provided by the Reset Email Password interface may be selected to reset an email password associated with the selected email identifier to the new password. In an embodiment of the present invention the Reset Email Password interface provides instructions regarding passwords including but not limited to instructions regarding case sensitivity of passwords required length of passwords and content of passwords. The Reset Email Password interface may also provide a close window button to close the interface and return to the CIT help desk GUI .

If the verification data matches and the Match Password hyperlink is selected the CIT program may provide a Match Password Confirmation interface confirming that a login password associated with the communication system of a customer matches a primary email password associated with the customer. The Match Password Confirmation interface may also include a close window button to close the interface and return to the CIT help desk GUI .

Referring now to further details regarding the operation of the CIT program will be described. In particular illustrate a routine for accessing information regarding a communication system from a plurality of information sources and providing a consolidated view of the information using the CIT program . The routine begins at operation where the login GUI of the CIT program is displayed. The routine proceeds to operation where verification information from a customer support technician or other user of the CIT program is received at the login name field and the password field of the login GUI and submitted to the program by the selection of the go button . From operation the routine proceeds to operation where a determination is made whether the received verification information is valid. As described above in an embodiment of the present invention the received verification information may be compared with a list of authorized users of the CIT program to determine whether the received verification information matches one of the authorized users.

If at operation a determination is made that the received verification information is not valid the routine proceeds to operation where a login counter associated with the CIT program is incremented. From operation the routine proceeds to operation where a determination is made whether the current login attempt is greater than a predetermined amount of login attempts permitted. The login counter may be compared with the predetermined amount of login attempts permitted to determine if the current login attempt is greater than the permitted predetermined amount of login attempts. The predetermined amount of login attempts permitted may be any number. In an embodiment of the present invention the predetermined amount of login attempts permitted is three.

If at operation a determination is made that the current login attempt is not greater than the predetermined amount of login attempts permitted then the routine proceeds back to operation where the login name field and the password field are cleared and verification information from the customer support technician or other user of the CIT program is again received at the login name field and password field and submitted for verification. However if a determination is made at operation that the current login attempt is greater than the predetermined amount of login attempts permitted then the routine proceeds to operation where the technician or other user attempting to access the CIT program is locked out of accessing the program. In an embodiment of the present invention the CIT program may provide a message indicating that the user has been locked out of the program for exceeding the predetermined amount of login attempts allowed. The routine then proceeds to operation where an indication of the failed login attempts is created and stored in the error log database . The indication may include a date and time associated with the failed login attempts as well as information identifying a workstation where the failed login attempts were performed. From operation the routine proceeds to operation where it ends.

If back at operation a determination is made that the received verification information is valid then the routine proceeds to operation where the CIT help desk GUI is displayed. In an embodiment of the present invention an indication of a valid login is created and stored in the error log database . The indication may include a date and time associated with the valid login as well as information identifying a workstation where the valid login was performed. The routine then proceeds to operation where a determination is made whether an initial request has been received. As described above receiving information in the identification information field and selection of the search button of the CIT help desk GUI causes an initial request to retrieve information associated with the received information in the identification information field to be provided to the CIT program .

If a determination is made that an initial request to retrieve information has not been received then the routine proceeds to operation where a determination is made whether the CIT program has remained idle for an amount of time greater than a predetermined amount of allowed idle time. The predetermined amount of allowed idle time may be any amount of time. In an embodiment of the present invention the predetermined amount of allowed idle time is sixty minutes. If a determination is made that the CIT program has remained idle for an amount of time greater than the predetermined amount of allowed idle time then the routine proceeds to operation where the technician or other user of the program is logged out of the program. From operation the routine proceeds back to operation where the login GUI is displayed. On the other hand if a determination is made that the CIT program has not remained idle for an amount of time greater than the predetermined amount of allowed idle time then the routine proceeds back to operation where the CIT help desk GUI continues to be displayed.

Back at operation if a determination is made that an initial request for information has been received then the routine proceeds to operation where the CIT program creates a request including the verification information provided by the technician or other user at the login GUI as well as information identified by each of the information categories or a select group of the information categories to be retrieved from the information systems and sends the request to the information service layer . The routine then proceeds to operation where the requested information is received from the information systems . As discussed above all of the requested information may be provided to the CIT program in response to the initial request or a portion of the requested information may be provided to the CIT program and the remaining portions of the requested information stored at the information service layer for later retrieval by the CIT program.

Once the requested information is received at the CIT program the routine proceeds to operation where the CIT program displays the requested information. Whether the request created by the CIT program and provided to the information service layer in response to receipt of the initial request included information identified by each of the information categories to be retrieved from the information systems or information identified by a select group of the information categories to be retrieved from the information systems the requested information displayed at operation may include the portion of the requested information identified by the select group of information categories and retrieved from the respective information systems. In an embodiment of the present invention the requested information displayed in response to the initial request includes information requested from the CRM system the MCDB CTS and the CRIS .

From operation the routine proceeds to operation where a determination is made whether a request for specific information is received at the CIT program . As described above if one of the hyperlinks provided by the contact information portion of the CIT help desk GUI is selected a request for information associated with the hyperlink is provided to the CIT program . If a determination is made that a request for specific information is not received then the routine proceeds to operation . On the other hand if a determination is made that a request for specific information is received then the routine proceeds to operation where the requested specific information is received by the CIT program and displayed in a display of the presentation view portion of the CIT help desk GUI . As discussed above if the initial request included information identified by each of the information categories to be retrieved from the information systems the requested information may be stored in either memory associated with the server computer executing the CIT program or in memory associated with the information service layer . In response to the request for specific information the CIT program may retrieve the requested specific information associated with the selected hyperlink from either the memory associated with the server computer or the memory associated with the information service layer and display the requested specific information.

On the other hand if the initial request included information identified by a select group of the information categories then in response to the request for specific information the CIT program may access the information categories list analyze the request for specific information to determine one or more information categories of the information category list related to the requested specific information create a request including the verification information provided at the login GUI and information identified by the one or more information categories associated with the specific information to be retrieved from one or more of the information systems and forward the request to the information service layer . Upon receipt of the request from the CIT program the information service layer may determine to access one or more of the information systems associated with the selected information category to retrieve the requested specific information and provide the requested specific information to the CIT program for display. From operation the routine proceeds to operation .

At operation a determination is made whether a request to reset a login or email password add an alias or mailbox or match passwords has been received by the CIT program . As discussed above in an embodiment of the present invention a request to reset a login password or an email password may be initiated by selection of the Reset Login Password hyperlink or the Reset Email Password hyperlink respectively of the contact information portion . A request to add an alias or a mailbox may be initiated by selection of the Add Alias hyperlink or the Add Mailbox hyperlink respectively of the contact information portion and a request to match passwords may be initiated by selection of the Match Password hyperlink of the contact information portion. A technician or other user of the CIT program may require a customer to supply valid customer verification information prior to taking action to request that a password be reset an alias or mailbox be added or passwords be matched.

If a determination is made that a request to reset a password add an alias or mailbox or match passwords is not received then the routine proceeds to operation . On the other hand if a determination is made that a request to reset a password add an alias or mailbox or match passwords is received then the routine proceeds to operation where the password is reset alias or mailbox added or passwords matched per the request. The routine then proceeds to operation .

At operation a determination is made whether a request to end the CIT session has been received. In an embodiment of the present invention if a technician or other user of the CIT program selects the clear button or the logout link of the CIT help desk GUI a request is provided to the CIT program to end the session and in response the program terminates the session. If a determination is made that a request to end the CIT session is not received then the routine proceeds to operation where a determination is made whether the CIT program has remained idle for an amount of time greater than a predetermined amount of allowed idle time. If a determination is made that the CIT program has remained idle for an amount of time greater than the predetermined amount of allowed idle time then the routine proceeds to operation where the technician or other user of the program is logged out of the program. From operation the routine proceeds back to operation where the login GUI is displayed. On the other hand if a determination is made that the CIT program has not remained idle for an amount of time greater than the predetermined amount of allowed idle time then the routine proceeds back to operation where a determination is made whether a request for specific information is received at the CIT program .

If a determination is made at operation that a request to end the CIT session has been received then the routine proceeds to operation where a determination is made whether notes from the technician or other user of the CIT program or from one or more of the information systems were received during the CIT session. As discussed above notes from the technician or other users of the CIT program and or notes provided by one or more of the information systems may be provided in the customer issue portion of the technical notation template . If a determination is made that notes were received during the CIT session then the routine proceeds to operation where the notes are associated with the customer and or communication system of the CIT session and provided to one or more of the information system . In an embodiment of the present invention the notes are sent by the CIT program to the CRM system and the MCDB CTS so that the CIT program may access the notes from the CRM system and the MCDB CTS upon initiation of a new CIT session regarding the communication system . From operation the routine proceeds to operation where it ends. If a determination is made at operation that no notes from the technician or other user of the CIT program or from one or more of the information systems were received during the CIT session then the routine proceeds to operation where it ends.

It will be appreciated that embodiments of the present invention provide methods systems apparatus and computer readable media for accessing information regarding a communication system from a plurality of information sources and providing a consolidated view of the information. Although the invention has been described in language specific to computer structural features methodological acts and by computer readable media it is to be understood that the invention defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific structures acts or media described. Therefore the specific structural features acts and mediums are disclosed as exemplary embodiments implementing the claimed invention.

The various embodiments described above are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed to limit the invention. Those skilled in the art will readily recognize various modifications and changes that may be made to the present invention without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described herein and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

