---

title: Position-sensing detector arrangement for controlling a faucet
abstract: A faucet arrangement includes a sensing device for sensing a presence of a user of a spout. The sensing device includes an infrared emitter installed such that a direction of emission of the emitter is oriented an angle of approximately between 5 and 15 degrees relative to a vertical direction. A receiver receives a diffused infrared energy from the emitter. A control device is in communication with the receiver and controls a flow of liquid through the spout dependent upon an angle at which the diffused infrared energy is received by the receiver.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08104113&OS=08104113&RS=08104113
owner: Masco Corporation of Indiana
number: 08104113
owner_city: Indianapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060105
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 661 982 filed Mar. 14 2005 which is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

This application also expressly incorporates by reference the disclosure of each of the following applications 1 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 755 581 filed Jan. 12 2004 titled MULTI MODE HANDS FREE AUTOMATIC FAUCET 2 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 755 582 filed Jan. 12 2004 titled CONTROL ARRANGEMENT FOR AN AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL FAUCET 3 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 757 316 filed Jan. 14 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 962 168 titled CAPACITIVE TOUCH ON OFF CONTROL FOR AN AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL FAUCET 4 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 912 254 filed Aug. 5 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 968 860 titled RESTRICTED FLOW HANDS FREE FAUCET 5 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 661 981 filed Mar. 14 2005 titled BATTERY BOX ASSEMBLY 6 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 662 107 filed Mar. 14 2005 titled SPOUT ASSEMBLY FOR AN ELECTRONIC FAUCET AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING STRAIN RELIEF OF A CABLE and 7 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 662 106 filed Mar. 14 2005 titled VALVE BODY ASSEMBLY WITH ELECTRONIC SWITCHING Related Applications . It is understood that certain features disclosed and or claimed in one or more of the Related Applications may be combined and or claimed in combination with certain features disclosed in this application.

The present invention relates to faucets and more particularly to electronic activation systems for faucets.

The state of the art in electronic activation of plumbing faucets utilizes infrared IR sensors to determine whether a user is placing his hands or some object such as dishes under the spout. The sensor is typically directed to the general area under the spout. If the sensor determines that the user is placing his hands or some object under the faucet then a controller turns on a flow of water or some other liquid to the spout. When the IR sensor no longer senses the presence of the hand or object under the spout then the controller turns off the flow of liquid to the spout.

IR sensors typically include an emitter for emitting IR energy and a receiver for receiving the IR energy after it has been reflected by some object in the path of the emitted IR energy. Known IR sensors for electronically activating faucets are intensity based in that the sensors detect the presence of a hand or object under the spout based upon an intensity magnitude or strength of the reflected IR energy received by the receiver. Generally the greater the intensity of the reflected energy the more likely it is that a hand or object has been placed under the spout.

A problem with intensity based IR sensors is that they cannot easily discriminate between various types of scenarios that may occur in the proximity of a sink. For example intensity based IR sensors cannot easily discriminate between a hand entering the sink bowl the water stream the water stream with hands actively washing in the stream and static situations such as a pot placed in the sink bowl. Because of this inability to discriminate the water stream is not always turned on or off when appropriate.

What is needed in the art is a sensor system that can more easily discriminate between different types of static and dynamic situations in the vicinity of a sink so that the flow of water through the spout may be more accurately controlled.

The present invention provides a faucet arrangement including an IR sensor that detects the distance between the sensor and objects placed in the vicinity of the sink bowl. Thus the IR sensor may detect not only the presence of hands or objects under the spout but may also monitor the movement of such hands or objects. The position sensitive IR sensor thereby provides data that is more useful than the data that can be provided by an intensity based IR sensor. The better data provided by the position sensitive IR sensor enables the controller to make better decisions on whether the flow of liquid through the spout should be turned on or off.

The invention further provides an arrangement of the position sensitive IR sensor that improves the stability of an output signal that is provided by the sensor s receiver wherein the output signal is based upon the reflected IR energy received by the receiver. A controller may process or filter the output signal of the sensor receiver in different ways based upon the stability of the output signal. Depending upon the stability of the receiver s output signal the controller may also use different criteria or threshold values in deciding whether the liquid flow to the spout should be turned on or off.

The invention comprises in one form thereof a faucet arrangement including a sensing device for sensing a presence of a user of a spout. The sensing device includes an infrared emitter installed such that a direction of emission of the emitter is oriented an angle of approximately between 5 and 15 degrees relative to a vertical direction. A receiver receives a diffused infrared energy from the emitter. A control device is in communication with the receiver and controls a flow of liquid through the spout dependent upon an angle at which the diffused infrared energy is received by the receiver.

In another form the invention comprises a faucet arrangement including an infrared sensing device for emitting infrared energy receiving the infrared energy after the energy has been reflected determining a distance traveled by the infrared energy before being reflected and producing a distance signal indicative of the determined distance at a plurality of points in time. A control device is in communication with the sensing device and controls a flow of liquid through a spout dependent upon whether the distance signal exceeds a threshold distance value. The threshold distance value is dependent upon an environmental condition.

In yet another form the invention comprises a faucet arrangement including an infrared sensing device emitting infrared energy receiving the infrared energy after the energy has been reflected determining a distance traveled by the infrared energy before being reflected and producing a distance signal indicative of the determined distance at a plurality of points in time. A control device is in communication with the sensing device and filters the distance signal dependent upon an environmental condition. The control device also controls a flow of liquid through the spout dependent upon whether the filtered distance signal exceeds a threshold distance value.

An advantage of the present invention is that the position sensitive IR sensor enables a controller to discriminate between various static and dynamic scenarios that may occur within the vicinity of a sink.

Yet another advantage is that the output signal of the sensor receiver may be processed or filtered in different ways based upon the stability of the output signal thus enabling valve control decisions to be made quickly and accurately under various conditions.

A further advantage is that depending upon the stability of the receiver s output signal different criteria or threshold values may be used in deciding whether the liquid flow to the spout should be turned on or off thus enabling valve control decisions to be made accurately under various conditions.

Corresponding reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views. Although the exemplifications set out herein illustrate the invention in one form the embodiments disclosed below are not intended to be exhaustive or to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention to the precise form disclosed.

Referring now to the drawings and particularly to there is shown one embodiment of a faucet arrangement of the present invention including a spout a sensing device and a control device . Spout includes a tube assembly and spray head which may have a diverter. Spray head may be detachable from tube assembly as shown in . Spray head is connected to a water line that extends through tube assembly . Spout may deliver a flow of liquid such as water through an opening and into a sink bowl disposed below spray head as is well known. Details of tube assembly are shown in and

As shown in the drawings sensing device may be positioned on a side of spout that is closer to the user when the user is using faucet arrangement . Sensing device may be in the form of an infrared IR sensor that is capable of sensing a distance that IR energy emitted by sensor travels before being reflected by some object in its path. That is sensor may determine a distance between sensor and an object that is reflecting IR energy emitted by sensor . In one embodiment sensor is in the form of a position sensing detector PSD . The terms reflect and reflection as used herein may refer to either specular reflection i.e. direct reflection or diffuse reflection. However in one embodiment sensor may sense the distance between sensor and an object primarily or exclusively based upon the diffuse reflection provided by the object.

PSD includes an IR energy emitter and an analog IR energy receiver having a lens and a detector . Emitter may produce a cone shaped emission of IR energy spanning a cone angle of approximately 60 degrees. However the IR energy may be concentrated along a central cone axis such that the effects of the IR energy that is not along axis are relatively small. Generally the intensity of the IR emission may decrease as the IR energy is directed farther away from axis . Depending upon the vertical level of a reflecting surface i.e. the distance between PSD and the reflecting surface lens focuses the diffusely reflected IR energy at different locations on IR detector . Thus PSD may determine the vertical level of the reflecting surface based upon the location on detector at which the IR energy is received. For example different vertical levels of reflecting surfaces would result in the reflected IR energy being focused at different respective locations on detector . As shown in sensor receives IR energy diffusely reflected from a user s hand at an angle that is larger than an angle at which sensor would receive IR energy diffusely reflected from another object such as a cooking surface of a pot that is farther away from sensor than is hand .

The voltages and or currents at terminals of detector may be dependent upon where along a length of detector that the reflected IR energy is received. For example the closer the location of the received IR energy to terminal the higher the voltage current that may be produced at terminal and the lower the voltage current that may be produced at terminal . The analog voltages currents at terminals may be communicated to a signal processor of sensor via respective communication lines . Based upon the signals on lines signal processor may output a voltage signal on a line to controller . The voltage signal on line may be indicative of where along length of detector that the IR energy was received. Electrical power may be supplied to sensor via a power line and a ground line . Another line may carry data from controller for controlling sensor and particularly controlling the output of emitter . Lines and may be carried in a common cable having a connector for connection to controller .

A more detailed schematic diagram of the electronics of one embodiment of sensor is shown in . is a diagram indicating the approximate sizes and shapes of emitter and lens in one embodiment of sensor . A distance between the midpoints of emitter and lens may be approximately twelve millimeters. An example of a position sensing detector that may be used as sensor of the present invention is an eight bit output distance measuring sensor model no. GP3Y0E001K0F sold by Sharp Corporation. Sensor may be connected to a circuit board not shown and to tube assembly as disclosed in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 662 107 filed Mar. 14 2005 titled SPOUT ASSEMBLY FOR AN ELECTRONIC FAUCET AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING STRAIN RELIEF OF A CABLE which is incorporated herein by reference.

Via a line controller may control a position of valve based upon the voltage signal on line . The position of valve may in turn control a flow of liquid through spout . Generally the shorter the distance that controller determines the IR energy traveled before being reflected i.e. the shorter the distance between sensor and the reflecting surface the greater the likelihood that controller will cause valve to be in an open position in which liquid is delivered through spout . Thus controller may control a flow of liquid through spout dependent upon an angle at which the diffused infrared energy is received by receiver .

According to the present invention emitter may be aligned such that when spout is installed above a sink bowl the direction of emission of emitter as represented by central axis is oriented at an angle of approximately between five and fifteen degrees relative to a vertical direction . Vertical direction may be defined as the direction aligned with the force of gravity. It has been found that directing emitter at an angle improves the stability over time of the signal transmitted on line to controller . More particularly directing emitter at an angle may reduce the amount of IR energy that is directed to receiver via spectral reflection. For example if central axis of IR emission were oriented vertically i.e. parallel to vertical direction it may be more likely that IR energy would spectrally reflect off some surface and be received by receiver . Standing water in sink bowl may be particularly apt to spectrally reflect IR energy back to receiver because of the lensing properties of the standing water.

The spectrally reflected IR energy may be energy that is not emitted along axis but rather is emitted within some other portion of the cone of IR emission and thus may be emitted at the particular angle required to spectrally reflect to receiver . Spectrally reflection more efficiently reflects IR energy to a receiver than does diffuse reflection. Thus even though the spectrally reflected IR energy is not emitted with intensity that is as high as the intensity with which the diffusely reflected IR energy along axis is emitted the spectrally reflected IR energy may be more efficiently reflected to receiver . Thus the spectrally reflected IR energy may be received with an intensity that is high enough to significantly affect the output of detector . Because the spectrally reflected IR energy is received by receiver at a different angle than is the diffusely reflected IR energy the spectrally reflected IR energy may appear to the system to be diffusely reflected by a surface at a distance other than the actual distance of the reflecting surface. For this reason spectrally reflected IR energy causes the output signal on line to be unstable. By directing the IR energy at angle a greater majority of the IR energy may be spectrally reflected away from receiver thus reducing the total amount of spectrally reflected IR energy that is received by receiver .

In the embodiment shown in the drawings angle is oriented at approximately a right angle to a plane defined by axis and paths of diffuse reflection to receiver . That is a first plane defined by axis and vertical direction and a second plane defined by axis and any one of diffuse reflection paths are oriented approximately perpendicular to one another. However the present invention is not limited to this ninety degree relationship between the two planes. Indeed it is possible within the scope of the invention for the two planes to be oriented at any angle relative to one another.

Axis is shown in the drawings as being directed generally away from a stream of liquid from spray head . Stated more exactly axis does not intersect stream of liquid and a plane defined by axis and a vertical line extending through emitter may approximately bisect stream of liquid . However the present invention is not limited to this direction of axis . Excellent results may be obtained so long as axis does not intersect stream . Emitter may advantageously be directed such that axis and stream diverge from one another with increasing distance from emitter and from spray head . Stream may be directed by spray head in a downward vertical direction.

Angle has been described herein as being approximately between five and fifteen degrees. However angle may be any nonzero angle up to ninety degrees within the scope of the invention. In one embodiment angle is approximately between eight degrees and ten degrees. In the embodiment shown in angle is approximately ten degrees.

Lens may be directed or focused in a direction that approximately intersects axis . Advantageously lens may be directed or focused in a direction that approximately intersects axis at a point along axis where a reflecting object is likely to be such as near the top of sink bowl . With the direction or focus of lens as described above lens may effectively focus the diffusely reflected IR energy onto detector . Sensor may include a secondary outer lens shown in and visible to a user of faucet arrangement through which passes both outgoing IR energy from emitter and incoming reflected IR energy to lens .

Sensor may output the distance signal on line at a plurality of points in time to thereby indicate the distance traveled by the IR energy before being reflected at each of the points in time. Thus the distance signal on line may be modified substantially continuously over time. In one embodiment controller may sample the distance signal twenty times per second i.e. every fifty milliseconds.

Controller may control the flow of liquid through spout dependent upon whether the distance signal exceeds a threshold distance value. Controller may cause water to flow through spout if the distance traveled by the IR energy before reflection is less than for example six inches. is an exemplary plot of the distance signal versus time. Controller may cause valve to open and thereby allow water to flow through spout at time t 300 ms when the distance signal first falls below six inches. Controller may close valve only when the distance signal equals or exceeds some other threshold value such as ten inches in the example shown in . Thus at t 600 ms controller may cause valve to close. An exemplary control arrangement that may be used in conjunction with the present invention is disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 755 582 filed Jan. 12 2004 and entitled CONTROL ARRANGEMENT FOR AN AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL FAUCET which is incorporated herein by reference. Other aspects of a control arrangement that may be used in conjunction with the present invention are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 755 581 filed Jan. 12 2004 and entitled MULTI MODE HANDS FREE AUTOMATIC FAUCET and or in other applications which are also incorporated herein by reference.

The values established by controller for one or both of the threshold values may depend upon some environmental condition that is determined by controller . Examples of such environmental conditions include a level of stability of the distance signal over time whether spout has been recently touched by a user a time duration of the touching of spout by the user and a time rate of change of the distance signal or of a moving average of the distance signal. In one embodiment the activation threshold is updated whenever a spout grab is released a tap off occurs or a stable signal is received by sensor

The stability of the distance signal over time may be defined in one embodiment as a range of the distance signal within a preceding time period. In other embodiments the stability of the distance signal over time may be defined as the standard deviation of the distance signal within a preceding time period or as some other measure of stability. is another exemplary plot of the distance signal versus time. A time t 0 ms a threshold value under which the distance signal must drop before controller opens valve is set at six inches.

Controller may set the threshold value based upon the stability of the distance signal. For example controller may monitor the stability of the distance signal and if the range of the distance signal exceeds some value such as 4.5 inches within some time period such as 100 ms controller may reduce the threshold value to four inches. Between 850 ms and 900 ms the distance signal increases from 6.5 inches to 11.5 inches thus having a range of greater than four inches within a preceding 100 ms time period. Thus at time t 900 ms controller reduces the threshold value from six inches to four inches. The distance signal may have become temporarily unstable due to spectral reflections being received by receiver or due to some other reasons.

The threshold value may be reduced in order to prevent nuisance activations of valve when the distance signal has become unstable but there is no actual motion under spout that warrants such activation. As shown in the plot between time t 900 ms and t 1100 ms the distance signal does drop to values between four inches and six inches. Thus the reduction of the threshold value to four inches prevents a nuisance activation of valve in the time period between t 900 ms and t 1100 ms.

As the distance signal becomes more stable controller may increase the threshold value. For example after t 1100 ms the distance signal becomes relatively stable varying by no more than approximately two inches within any 100 ms time period. After sensing this stability controller may raise the threshold value such as to six inches at approximately time t 1200 ms as shown in .

Another environmental condition based upon which controller may adjust the threshold value is whether spout has been recently touched by a user. Faucet arrangement may use capacitive sensing to determine whether spout has been recently touched by a user. One possible implementation of such capacitive sensing is disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 757 316 filed Jan. 14 2004 and entitled CAPACITIVE TOUCH ON OFF CONTROL FOR AN AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL FAUCET which is incorporated herein by reference. If controller determines that spout has recently been touched by a user within the preceding ten seconds for example controller may increase the threshold value to which the distance signal is compared. For example controller may increase a threshold distance value from four inches to six inches such that controller may open valve if an object has been detected within six inches of sensor .

If the user has recently touched spout then it may be deemed more likely that the user will desire that water be delivered from spray head . Thus an increase in the threshold value may be appropriate in order to increase the likelihood that an object is sensed within the threshold distance value and thereby increase the likelihood that the water flow is turned on as desired by the user.

Yet another environmental condition based upon which controller may adjust the threshold value is the time duration of the recent touching of spout by the user. Again capacitive sensing may be used to determine the time duration of the recent touching of spout by the user. If controller determines that spout has recently been touched by a user with a time duration of at least one second for example controller may increase the threshold value to which the distance signal is compared.

If the time duration of the touching is relatively short then it may be assumed that the touching was inadvertent and that the touching is not probative of a user s desire that the water flow be turned on. If the user has recently touched spout for a relatively long duration of time then it may be deemed more likely that the user will desire that water be delivered from spray head . Thus an increase in the threshold value may be appropriate in order to increase the likelihood that an object is sensed within the threshold distance value and thereby increase the likelihood that the water flow is turned on as desired by the user.

In one embodiment controller may filter the distance signal and compare this filtered distance signal to the threshold distance value in deciding whether to open valve . That is controller may control the flow of liquid through spout dependent upon whether the filtered distance signal exceeds the threshold distance value. Again the threshold distance value may be adjusted based upon environmental conditions.

In one embodiment controller filters the distance signal by calculating a moving average of a number of preceding values of the distance signal. However it is also possible for the filtering to include calculating a weighted moving average or some other type of average of a number of preceding values of the distance signal.

In one embodiment the filtering includes calculating a moving average of the four most recent values of the distance signal. In another embodiment however a number of values of the distance signal that are included in the moving average is dependent upon a level of stability of the distance signal. For example if the distance signal is relatively unstable which may be due to spectral reflections being received by the sensor then it may be desirable to include a greater number of the preceding values of the distance signal in the calculated moving average so that the calculated moving average is more representative of a true average. Conversely if the distance signal is relatively stable then fewer values of the distance signal may be needed to calculate a moving average that is representative of a true average.

In one embodiment eight preceding values of the distance signal may be included in the calculated moving average when the distance signal is relatively unstable and only four preceding values of the distance signal may be included in the calculated moving average when the distance signal is relatively stable. It may be advantageous to include fewer values in the moving average when possible so that controller may react more quickly to the insertion and or removal of objects under spout . That is the fewer values included in the moving average the greater the influence of a most recent value on the moving average and the more quickly the moving average will change due to an object moving under spout .

In another embodiment eight preceding values of the distance signal may be included in the calculated moving average not only when the distance signal is relatively unstable but also whenever liquid is flowing from spout . Flowing water in the field of view of the sensor may cause spectral reflections which may call for increased filtering. The greater number of values included in the moving average may provide such increased filtering. In this embodiment only four preceding values of the distance signal may be included in the calculated moving average when the distance signal is relatively stable and when liquid is not flowing from spout .

Although the filtering has been disclosed herein as calculating a moving average other types of filtering are possible within the scope of the present invention. For example the filtering may include some other form of low pass filtering such as finding a median value or calculating a moving average after eliminating the highest value and the lowest value.

A tendency of the output of PSD sensors to rather suddenly begin drifting has been observed and is illustrated in . The moving average of the output signal is shown to be stable up to approximately time 1.75 seconds. At that time the distance reading of the sensor starts to drop abruptly toward the turn on threshold of six inches despite there being no actual movement in the basin. As shown the distance reading crosses the turn on threshold at approximately time 2.23 seconds which causes the valve to open and water to flow from the spout. The flow of water may cause the output of the sensor to stabilize and cross the turn off threshold of ten inches as shown at approximately time 2.8 seconds. After the valve closes and the water flow ceases the output of the sensor may again drift as shown starting at approximately time 3 seconds. The cycle of unwanted water flow repeats with the valve again opening at approximately time 3.57 seconds.

Still another environmental condition based upon which controller may adjust the threshold value is the downward slope or time rate of change of the distance signal or of a moving average of the distance signal. In one embodiment of the invention illustrated in drifting of the moving average of the sensor output is sensed and the turn on threshold is accordingly adjusted such that undesired water flows are avoided. More particularly if the downward slope or time rate of change of the sensor output is within a predetermined range that is typically associated with sensor drift then the turn on threshold may be adjusted downward in order to avoid nuisance water flows from the spout. For example at approximately time 2.1 seconds the output signal exhibits a downward slope that is within the predetermined range. In response the turn on threshold is lowered from about six inches to about 2.8 inches.

If the magnitude of the slope is greater than the predetermined range then it may indicate that the change in the output is due to some other phenomenon such as spectral reflection and thus the turn on threshold is not adjusted. If the magnitude of the slope is less than the predetermined range then it may indicate that the change in the output is due to some actual movement within the basin and the turn on threshold is again not adjusted.

After the output of the sensor has stabilized as shown in in the time period approximately between 2.5 seconds and 2.75 seconds the turn on threshold may be adjusted upward. For example in the turn on threshold is shown as being adjusted to a level of approximately five inches at approximately time 2.7 seconds. As the output signal continues to alternate between drifting downward and restabilizing the threshold may be accordingly readjusted as shown in the time period after approximately time 2.9 seconds.

As illustrated in the embodiments of the turn on threshold may be adjusted based not only on the downward slope of the sensor output signal or its moving average but also on a value of the output signal or its moving average. More particularly the threshold distance value may be maintained to be at least a predetermined amount greater than a value associated with the distance signal if the rate of change associated with the distance signal is within a predetermined range.

IR energy receiver has been described herein as being analog. However it is to be understood that it is within the scope of the present invention for the IR energy receiver to be of the digital variety. Such a digital receiver is capable of pixelating the regions of IR reception. That is the digital receiver may provide data relating to the intensity and location of IR reception on a pixel by pixel basis. Thus a digital receiver may provide more information than does an analog receiver.

While this invention has been described as having an exemplary design the present invention may be further modified within the spirit and scope of this disclosure. This application is therefore intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention using its general principles.

