---

title: Extending an internet content delivery network into an enterprise
abstract: An Internet content delivery network deploys one or more CDN server regions in an enterprise and manages those regions as part of the Internet CDN. In one aspect of the invention, a CDN service provider (CDNSP) deploys one or more CDN regions behind an enterprise's corporate firewall(s). The regions are used to deliver Internet content—content that has been tagged or otherwise made available for delivery over the Internet from the CDN's content servers. This content includes, for example, content that given content providers have identified is to be delivered by the CDN. In addition, the enterprise may tag intranet content, which is then also served from the CDN regions behind the firewall. Intranet content remains secure by virtue of using the enterprise's existing security infrastructure. In accordance with another aspect of the invention, the CDNSP implements access controls and deploys one or more CDN regions outside an enterprise's firewall(s) such that intranet content can be served from regions located outside the firewall(s). In this embodiment, the CDNSP can provide granular control, such as permissions per groups of users. In this way, the CDNSP, in effect, extends a conventional virtual private network (VPN) to all or a portion of the ICDN, thereby enabling the CDNSP to use multiple regions and potentially thousands of content servers available to serve the enterprise's internal content. In addition to making internal content available from the edge of the network, the CDNSP provides a mechanism by which an enterprise may share secure data with its business partner(s) without setting up any special infrastructure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07600025&OS=07600025&RS=07600025
owner: Akamai Technologies, Inc.
number: 07600025
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060821
---
This application is a continuation of prior application Ser. No. 10 041 031 filed Jan. 7 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 096 266 which application was based on Ser. No. 60 260 310 filed Jan. 8 2001.

The present invention relates generally to deploying content delivery servers in or near an enterprise environment and managing those servers as part of an Internet content delivery network ICDN .

It is well known to deliver digital content e.g. HTTP content streaming media and applications using an Internet content delivery network ICDN . A content delivery network or CDN is a network of geographically distributed content delivery nodes that are arranged for efficient delivery of content on behalf of third party content providers. A request from a requesting end user for given content is directed to a best replica where best usually means that the item is served to the client quickly compared to the time it would take to fetch it from the content provider origin server.

Typically a CDN is implemented as a combination of a content delivery infrastructure a request routing mechanism and a distribution infrastructure. The content delivery infrastructure usually comprises a set of surrogate origin servers that are located at strategic locations e.g. Internet network access points Internet Points of Presence and the like for delivering copies of content to requesting end users. The request routing mechanism allocates servers in the content delivery infrastructure to requesting clients in a way that for web content delivery minimizes a given client s response time and for streaming media delivery provides for the highest quality. The distribution infrastructure consists of on demand or push based mechanisms that move content from the origin server to the surrogates. An effective CDN serves frequently accessed content from a surrogate that is optimal for a given requesting client. In a typical CDN a single service provider operates the request routers the surrogates and the content distributors. In addition that service provider establishes business relationships with content publishers and acts on behalf of their origin server sites to provide a distributed delivery system. A well known commercial CDN service that provides web content and media streaming is provided by Akamai Technologies Inc. of Cambridge Mass.

Enterprises have begun to explore the desirability of implementing content delivery infrastructures to address several problems. Currently enterprise users typically experience slow and expensive access to Internet content. Slow access to business critical data available on the Internet hurts productivity and the cost of providing good access e.g. by building bigger networks and by deploying and managing caching infrastructure is large. In addition many IT organizations cannot deliver the required quality of service for Internet content delivery due to lack of talent and expertise. Yet another reason corporations are exploring CDNs is because of the slow expensive and often cumbersome access to and within the entity s intranet. As corporate intranets quickly become a critical component of business processes in many large companies fast and efficient access to the data and applications on the intranet is a high priority for many IT departments. Nevertheless current intranet delivery solutions are inadequate moreover potential solutions e.g. by building bigger internal networks deploying and managing caches and distributing application front ends are extremely expensive. To address these deficiencies several large software vendors are attempting to build ecosystems to provide web based front ends to many enterprise applications however distributing these applications from front ends efficiently in of itself will be a critical IT problem that current technologies do not address. Finally enterprises are considering CDN technology due to slow expensive access to business partner applications and information provided by current techniques and solutions. Business to business applications such as ordering inventory and pricing management between business partners is done today by linking partners with a physical network. These applications are moving to the Internet intranet and the need to link business partners together in an efficient way with web based front ends is another critical IT problem that is not addressed by today s solutions.

According to the present invention an Internet content delivery network is extended into an enterprise to create a flexible uniform platform that preferably is deployed both on the Internet and inside of corporations or other business entities . Preferably the same software and systems are deployed on the Internet CDN and inside the enterprise. By having only one technology that encompasses both the Internet and the corporate network LAN WAN or the like the resulting platform can be leveraged to provide new business services to the enterprise in a more efficient and cost effective manner. Managing the same infrastructure is quite efficient and by deploying the same software and systems on the ICDN and inside the enterprise the ICDN can seamlessly deliver Internet content in the enterprise and with suitable security it can deliver intranet content over the Internet.

Internet CDNs deliver content for participating content providers from surrogate origin servers typically located at edge networks. Such publicly available content is referred to herein as ICDN content. In contrast internal enterprise content or ECDN content generally is non publicly available content in whatever format that an enterprise desires to make available to permitted users within the enterprise or a third party partner of the enterprise. According to the invention CDN servers are deployed within or outside an enterprise firewall and are selectively used as surrogate origin servers for ICDN content and or for hosting delivering ECDN content. More specifically a particular CDN server deployed and managed in this manner may be used to serve a enterprise content in which case the server is referred to as an ECDN server with respect to such ECDN content and or b ICDN content in which case it is referred to an an ICDN server with respect to such ICDN content of behalf of participating CDN content providers.

In a first embodiment the CDNSP locates at least one content server region comprising one or more content servers where multiple servers may share a common back end inside an enterprise s firewall. Thus for example the CDN content servers are located on the corporate LAN perhaps side by side with other servers in the enterprise infrastructure. When such servers are located inside the enterprise firewall they are ECDN servers but are also deemed to be ICDN aware because according to the invention they can be used as surrogate origin servers to serve ICDN content from participating content providers that otherwise use the ICDN. Thus in this embodiment the CDN servers are used to deliver both Internet content otherwise available from the ICDN as well as intranet content that is tagged or otherwise made available for delivery over those servers. In a second embodiment the CDNSP locates its content server region topologically and perhaps geographically near where the enterprise connects to the Internet but not within the enterprise firewall itself. Thus for example CDN content servers are located in the demilitarized zone DMZ just outside the corporate firewall or at a nearby topologically speaking network access point. With appropriate authentication and access control in place these ICDN servers can be used to serve intranet content. As such these ICDN servers are also ECDN aware. 

Thus according to the present invention ECDN servers within an enterprise firewall are ICDN aware and thus can act as surrogate origin servers to host and serve ICDN content while ICDN servers topologically near an enterprise firewall are ECDN aware and thus can host and serve ECDN content . In a particular embodiment both ICDN aware ECDN servers and ECDN aware ICDN servers are provided and the CDNSP provides a managed service for the ICDN content servers and optionally for the ECDN content servers.

The CDNSP deploys one or more CDN regions behind an enterprise s firewall s or the enterprise may deploy such regions. The regions are used to deliver ICDN content migrated to the ICDN by participating content providers. In addition the enterprise may tag intranet content which is then also served from the CDN regions behind the firewall. Intranet content remains secure by virtue of using the enterprise s existing security infrastructure. Alternatively the CDNSP implements access controls and deploys one or more CDN regions outside an enterprise s firewall s such that in addition to using those regions for ICDN content intranet content can be served as well to authenticated and authorized users . In this embodiment the CDNSP provide granular control such as permissions per groups of users. In this way the CDNSP in effect extends a conventional virtual private network VPN to all or a portion of the ICDN thereby enabling the CDNSP to use multiple regions and potentially thousands of content servers available to serve the enterprise s ECDN content. In addition to making ECDN content available from the edge of the network in this manner the CDNSP provides a mechanism by which an enterprise may share secure data with its business partner s without setting up any special infrastructure.

The foregoing has outlined some of the more pertinent features of the present invention. These features should be construed to be merely illustrative. Many other beneficial results can be attained by applying the disclosed invention in a different manner or by modifying the invention as will be described.

As used herein an enterprise refers to some defined set of networks machines software and control functionality. A representative enterprise may be a corporate intranet. A given enterprise typically includes locations that are geographically dispersed but that are interconnected over a given network e.g. a LAN WAN or the like . More generally an enterprise is any cognizable legal entity.

As described above it is known in the art to deliver HTTP streaming media and applications over an Internet content delivery network CDN or ICDN . The present invention leverages Internet CDN architecture and functionality such as generally described below.

As seen in an Internet content delivery infrastructure usually comprises a set of surrogate origin servers that are located at strategic locations e.g. Internet network access points and the like for delivering copies of content to requesting end users . A surrogate origin server is defined for example in IETF Internet Draft titled Requirements for Surrogates in the HTTP dated Aug. 9 2000 which is incorporated herein by reference. The request routing mechanism allocates servers in the content delivery infrastructure to requesting clients in a way that for web content delivery minimizes a given client s response time and for streaming media delivery provides for the highest quality. The distribution infrastructure consists of on demand or push based mechanisms that move content from the origin server to the surrogates. A CDN service provider CDNSP may organize sets of surrogate origin servers as a region. In this type of arrangement a CDN region typically comprises a set of one or more content servers that share a common backend e.g. a LAN and that are located at or near an Internet access point. Thus for example a typical CDN region may be co located within an Internet Service Provider ISP Point of Presence PoP . A representative CDN content server is a Pentium based caching appliance running an operating system e.g. Linux Windows NT Windows 2000 and having suitable RAM and disk storage for CDN applications and content delivery network content e.g. HTTP content streaming media and applications . Such content servers are sometimes referred to as edge servers as they are located at or near the so called outer reach or edges of the Internet. The CDN typically also includes network agents that monitor the network as well as the server loads. These network agents are typically co located at third party data centers or other locations. Map maker software receives data generated from the network agents and periodically creates maps that dynamically associate IP addresses e.g. the IP addresses of client side local name servers with the CDN regions. In one type of service offering known as Akamai FreeFlow from Akamai Technologies Inc. of Cambridge Mass. content is tagged for delivery from the CDN using a content migrator or rewrite tool operated for example at a participating content provider server. Tool rewrites embedded object URLs to point to the CDNSP domain. A request for tagged content is resolved through a CDNSP managed DNS to identify a best region and then to identify an edge server within the region that is not overloaded and that is likely to host the requested content. Instead of using content provider side migration e.g. using the tool a participating content provider may simply direct the CDNSP to serve an entire domain or subdomain by a DNS directive e.g. a CNAME . In such case the CDNSP may provide object specific metadata to the CDN content servers to determine how the CDN content servers will handle a request for an object being served by the CDN. Metadata as used herein thus refers to the set of all control options and parameters for the object e.g. coherence information origin server identity information load balancing information customer code other control codes etc. and such information may be provided to the CDN content servers via a configuration file in HTTP headers or in other ways. A configuration file is advantageous as it enables a change in the metadata to apply to an entire domain to any set of directories or to any set of file extensions. In one approach the CDNSP operates a metadata transmission system comprising a set of one or more servers to enable metadata to be provided to the CDNSP content servers. The system may comprise at least one control server and one or more staging servers each of which is typically an HTTP server e.g. Apache . Metadata is provided to the control server by the CDNSP or the content provider e.g. using a secure extranet application and periodically delivered to the staging servers . The staging servers deliver the metadata to the CDN content servers as necessary.

According to the invention servers that handle internal enterprise content i.e. non publicly available content are deployed within or outside an enterprise firewall and are also used as surrogate origin servers for hosting and serving ICDN content. A particular CDN server deployed and managed in this manner may be used to serve a enterprise content in which case it is referred to as an ECDN server with respect to such content and or b ICDN content in which case it is referred to an an ICDN server with respect to such content of behalf of CDN content providers. In a first general embodiment the CDNSP locates its content server region comprising one or more content servers where multiple servers may share a common backend inside an enterprise s firewall. Thus for example the CDN content servers are located on the corporate LAN perhaps even side by side with other servers in the enterprise infrastructure. When such servers are located inside the enterprise firewall they are ECDN servers but are also deemed to be ICDN aware because according to the invention they can be used as surrogate origin servers to serve ICDN content. Thus in this embodiment the CDN servers are used to deliver both Internet content otherwise available from the ICDN as well as intranet content that is tagged or otherwise made available for delivery over those servers. In a second general embodiment the CDNSP locates its content server region topologically and perhaps geographically near where the enterprise connects to the Internet but not within the enterprise firewall itself. Thus for example CDN content servers are located in the demilitarized zone DMZ just outside the corporate firewall or at a nearby topologically speaking network access point. With appropriate authentication and access control in place these ICDN servers can be used to serve intranet content. As such these ICDN servers are also ECDN aware. 

Thus according to the present invention ECDN servers within an enterprise firewall are ICDN aware and thus can act as surrogate origin servers to host and serve ICDN content while ICDN servers topologically near an enterprise firewall are ECDN aware and thus can host and serve ECDN content . In a particular embodiment both ICDN aware ECDN servers and ECDN aware ICDN servers are provided and the CDNSP provides a managed service for the ICDN content servers and optionally for the ECDN content servers.

An enterprise may include one or more locations such as a central office and one or more remote offices. Conventionally a remote office is connected to the central office over a private line which refers to a line not generally routable over the public Internet e.g. frame relay satellite link microwave link or the like over a virtual private network VPN typically over the public Internet or in other known ways. In the present invention the CDNSP extends its ICDN into the enterprise by deploying and managing CDN server regions in the central office and or regional offices of the enterprise.

According to the invention the CDNSP has the ability to map and load balance users inside the enterprise as part of the global ICDN to fetch content from inside the firewall to collect log information to deploy software to distribute live streams and to provide other ICDN functionality. In an illustrative embodiment the ICDN deploys a so called relay mechanism or node next to or within the enterprise firewall. This relay node is used as a secure entry point to manage CDN regions on a LAN. In addition the relay may be used as a conduit to fetch content from inside the LAN and to act as a gateway for edge based server side include back end traffic that needs to be tunneled into the LAN.

Most corporations today either outsource their Domain Name Service DNS or run a single centralized DNS server. As a result the CDNSP cannot readily identify whether a user is located in a particular remote office if a central DNS server is used. To provide effective mapping inside a LAN the CDNSP provides the corporation or manages it on the corporation s behalf with a DNS system that provides each remote office with an identity based on the DNS server IP address that is used for recursive lookups on behalf of users in that office. The methods include using WCCP to transparently intercept given port traffic on an edge router and direct DNS traffic to a local caching DNS server and providing a centralized multi DNS that can be configured to identify the user s location by choosing one of multiple addresses to use for a recursive lookup depending on the client IP.

According to one aspect of the invention the CDNSP provides information security through strong authentication and access control. The goal is to provide an identity based authentication and access control method that is as secure as using a VPN and a firewall to protect sensitive intranet content. Preferably the owner of the ECDN content controls access to each page or application by listing the users or groups of users that are allowed access. This list is then securely distributed to the appropriate CDN servers. Content is then securely distributed to the appropriate ECDN servers and preferably stored in an encrypted format either push or on demand . A user may theoretically be routed to any CDN server for any content and it is the job of the authentication and access control mechanism to only allow a user to view content and applications to which he or she has been granted access. Preferably this subsystem has no central point of control or database. Access control is flexible and is provided on a per group of pages or application basis. Content is fetched securely and stored securely on all CDN servers and preferably the key is not present on the server so that even if the server is compromised no data can be read from disk without obtaining the key from someone else. Preferably users must have a verifiable identity that can be used to authenticate and users can only decrypt what they have access to. Authentication is secure from eavesdropping. Further the CDNSP may implement a secure and efficient back channel for uncacheable requests to be tunneled to the content provider. The authentication and access control have low overhead and are scaleable to tens of thousands of content servers hundreds of millions of users and billions of documents. Preferably the authentication and access control is implemented without using existing VPN technology that requires hardware at the enterprise or in the network between the user and the server. Thus in one embodiment a plug in is used for the browser OS that keeps an identity authenticates to a server and decrypts data that is received. The access control and management system may be integrated with existing enterprise authentication schemes such as LDAP or various Microsoft based protocols.

Further to offer new services to the enterprise the CDNSP may also provide an ecosystem around the creation and management of content and applications. To this end the CDNSP also provides publishing tools access control management tools application server environments and metadata creation and publishing tools These tools are currently implemented in known CDN architectures and may be extended as follows to facilitate the present invention.

Content on the intranet namely intranet or so called ECDN content most likely is not popular in the sense that there will be significant demand for such content by multiple users concurrently and hence it will only need to be published to the appropriate set of CDN servers before users access the content. To this end the CDNSP may provide application programming interfaces APIs to a suitable publishing mechanism. Preferably the API is integrated into an ICDN application that customers use as well as into existing tools that enterprises use to publish and manage the content on their intranets. Publishing on the LAN may require rate shaping and scheduling to effectively distribute large quantities of data without congesting the network. The CDNSP may also provide the enterprise with an interface to the enterprise s access control management tool which controls how users access content. This tool is integrated with existing enterprise authentication and identity management tools such as LDAP directory services. In addition the CDNSP preferably integrates support for edge based server side include functionality into one or more application server environments e.g. IBM WebSphere BEA Microsoft Vignette and others . As noted above the CDNSP preferably also provides support for metadata publishing and creation.

The following are sample usage scenarios of the many ways an enterprise can deploy and use an Internet content delivery network according to the present invention. These scenarios are merely representative.

The major advantage of immersing the ICDN aware region machines in their own public IP space bubble is that the CDNSP can use its existing systems and software. The ICDN aware region machines as with the other surrogate origin servers in the rest of the global CDN continue to operate unchanged.

The following describes the component parts of in greater detail. For illustrative purposes assume the region under consideration is a four 4 machine region called Region 1 GE NY and assume that the public addresses of the region are 64.0.0.1 64.0.0.4. In this example these machines are also addressable using private addresses e.g. 10.0.0.1 10.0.0.4 with the private address space behind the firewall being 10.0.0.0 24. The THRU FW interface is implemented by two machines a machine outside the firewall OUT FW and a machine inside the firewall IN FW. PUB PRI is a machine between the region and the rest of the enterprise machines inside the firewall. Assume PUB PRI has a public IP 64.0.0.5 and a private IP 10.0.0.5.

THRU FW This is basically a tunnel thru the firewall. In this illustrative example OUT FW can be situated in any datacenter to which the addresses 64.0.0.1 64.0.0.4 are routed. IN FW connects out thru the firewall to OUT FW. OUT FW sends any packets it receives addressed to 64.0.0.1 64.0.0.4 and tunnels them to IN FW. This can be implemented any number of ways e.g. PPP over stunnel ipsec or other VPN software. IN FW recovers the original packets and puts them out on the front end of the ICDN region machines. IN FW sends similarly addressed packets to OUT FW which does the same and sends the recovered packets on their way in the Internet. THRU FW in addition to being a tunnel rewrites DNS packets. Thus for example whenever the tunnel receives a DNS response packet from a GE NY machine it rewrites the 64.0.0.x address with the equivalent 10.0.0.x for x in 1 4. This DNS rewrite may be performed either at IN FW or OUT FW and preferably it is a subset of the functionality of a DNS proxy. IN FW and OUT FW are remotely configurable and can be controlled e.g. through an ssh connection and it can be queried from the global CDN. This tunnel may be replicated at multiple places on the public Internet for improved fault tolerance.

PUB PRI This is basically a NAT compatible firewall that rewrites packets with destination 10.0.0.x originating on the private side to packets with corresponding 64.0.0.x addresses on the public side and itself as the source and vice versa. It is possible and may be desirable to combine the IN FW and PUB PRI functionalities into one machine. This component preferably is also configurable and can be controlled through an ssh connection.

The following is a typical interaction for ICDN content The end user behind the firewall navigates his or her browser to the domain of a web site having content that has been tagged for delivery by the ICDN. The browser contacts its nameserver which then sends out a DNS query to a top level of the ICDN request routing mechanism. The query appears to come from the firewall of GE NY. The request routing mechanism then directs the browser nameserver to low level name servers in GE NY 64.0.0.1 64.0.0.4. The nameserver then sends out the query to say 64.0.0.1 which leaves the firewall and enters OUT FW at a given location say L3 DC. OUT FW encrypts the packet and sends it along thru the tunnel to IN FW which then reassembles the packet and puts it out on the front end of the GE NY machines. 64.0.0.1 responds with the IP address of a ICDN aware machine that has been designated to serve the content say 64.0.0.2. When this packet reaches IN FW this could also happen at the OUT FW end it rewrites the content of the DNS packet so that 64.0.0.2 in the payload is converted to 10.0.0.2. This is then returned by the nameserver to the browser which then sends a HTTP get to 10.0.0.2. This packet now comes into PUB PRI which changes the destination IP to 64.0.0.2 and the source to its own 64.0.0.5 source address. When 64.0.0.2 responds to 64.0.0.5 it then rewrites the packet as coming from 10.0.0.2 and sends it to the browser. To summarize DNS interactions preferably go thru the tunnel while HTTP interactions preferably go thru PUB PRI. On a cache miss the ICDN aware machine can bypass the tunnel and go directly to the origin server thru the firewall via PUB PRI for example.

In the embodiment the servers are ICDN aware but for illustrative purposes only are not used for ECDN content. This is evident from the arrows in that indicate that the requests are for ICDN content namely content that originates from content providers outside the enterprise firewall and that is generally available over the public Internet. The dashed line in this figure means that the single request could be mapped either to the local ICDN aware server in the remote office or the ICDN aware server in the central office. Now suppose the end user also desires ECDN content. This embodiment is illustrated in wherein the servers that are positioned behind the enterprise firewall are ICDN aware ECDN servers in that these servers are useful for both ICDN content and ECDN content. Continuing with the example to prevent access of intranet content from outside preferably the CDNSP blocks all connections from the outside to ports 80 443 on the inside. ECDN content is tagged on a given domain and the enterprise administrator sets up records in the enterprise s local nameservers so that the local CDN region is authoritative for that domain. This causes both DNS and HTTP traffic to transit thru PUB PRI. IN FW is set up to ignore DNS queries corresponding to the enterprise s internal domain names while PUB PRI picks them up and responds using the internal nameservers with 10. addresses. When a ECDN server issues HTTP GETs to access the content on the origin server to 10.0.0.0 24 addresses PUB PRI NATs them over.

As noted above is a second embodiment of the invention that illustrates the use of ICDN aware ECDN servers. In this illustration ECDN content requests are designated by the heavier weight arrows and ICDN content requests are designated by the lighter weight arrows. ECDN content and applications are delivered inside an enterprise firewall with traditional security methods. In this scenario an enterprise wants to improve not only the performance of web sites that the ICDN delivers but it also wants to improve the performance of intranet delivered content. As in the previous scenario the enterprise hands over DNS operations to the ICDN the ICDN deploys an ICDN aware region in each remote office and the ICDN controls the regions as part of the ICDN network. To this end the enterprise is given a domain say home.foo.com with a private map that only maps to regions inside of the firewall of the corporation.

Preferably content on the intranet is tagged for delivery over the ICDN by known methods including explicit or implicit CNAME tagging . Metadata is created and deployed using the ICDN s metadata transmission system. The webmaster of the intranet publishes data to the ICDN aware regions that are deployed inside the LAN when new content becomes available on the intranet. Existing ICDN logging and tracking tools are used by the webmaster to track usage of content on the intranet. Security of intranet content in this case is provided by the standard method of preventing network access to the ICDN aware ECDN servers and the origin server that are located inside the LAN. There is no requirement for access control or authentication. In addition in this embodiment application front ends may be delivered from ICDN servers by edge based server side include or XSLT functionality which is integrated into the application server front end. Back end traffic need not be encrypted and stays inside the firewall. Database answers preferably are cached as XML on the ICDN servers and database updates are invalidation events for cached XML.

As illustrated content on the intranet preferably is hosted at the central office web server behind the firewall. The intranet is given a domain say home.foo.com which is CNAMEd to an ICDN name that is visible on the ICDN. Metadata is created by existing ICDN methods and access control is defined for all of the content of the intranet. In this case preferably only employees of the corporation would be allowed to access content from the intranet. The access control may be more granular up to groups of pages and specific applications. For example only the top ten people in the company might be able to access the application that gives the real time cash position of the company and other such access policies can be implemented using known mechanisms. Content that is added to the intranet or application data that changes would be published to a set of ICDN nodes that is selected to be close to the majority of the remote offices of the corporation. Preferably only encrypted content is published outside of the firewall.

In operation users in a remote office that look up home.foo.com are mapped to the closest ICDN server that is deployed on the Internet. Metadata for home.foo.com describes which users have access to the content. The ICDN server authenticates the user by interacting with the client and then only after checking if the user is allowed to view the content it sends the encrypted content to the client. This interaction would be as or more secure than using an existing VPN system.

If the content needs to be fetched from inside the firewall to be cached at an ICDN edge node preferably it is fetched over an authenticated and encrypted channel. If content needs to be fetched from inside the LAN e.g. it was not published or it has expired the request is tunneled though the relay mechanism. The relay mechanism preferably has access to the LAN systems behind the firewall and preferably it encrypts the content before it leaves the enterprise. The content is securely distributed to the edge node and sent to the user. If a remote user is accessing an application front end distributed with server side include XSLT technology then the back channel component XML requests preferably are sent to the relay over an encrypted channel. The relay has access to the database front end and preferably encrypts the response before it leaves the enterprise.

Another case that could arise here is an application or content section that the enterprise does not want distributed outside of the firewall in any case either over a VPN or encrypted over the ICDN network. This application can use a special domain name that maps only the servers that are deployed inside the LAN. This is similar to the method illustrated in above. The separation of security from physical network access affords flexibility to deploy this type of solution. Another related deployment is to serve users from ICDN servers on the corporate LAN when they are in the office but to serve intranet content and applications to them from ICDN edge servers on the Internet when such users access remotely.

The enterprise provides access controls that allow users in the partner company to access the content and applications that are to be shared. The content and applications preferably are deployed on a domain that is visible on the ICDN DNS request routing mechanism. Users in the partner company are mapped to the closest ECDN aware ICDN edge server are authenticated and are served the content or application front end. As in the previous scenarios content is stored and fetched securely and SSI XSLT back channel information is tunneled securely to the corporate LAN. Also similar to previous examples content from the shared applications and content is published to nodes that are close to the partner offices. With previous notions of security a private line would have been set up between the two enterprises and firewalls would have been configured to give access to the servers for the applications and content that is to be shared. This is expensive and complex. The above solution is elegant and can be a huge cost savings for the enterprise.

The above has described several embodiments illustrating how an enterprise or a CDNSP implement ICDN and ECDN content delivery both within and without an enterprise firewall. Thus according to the present invention ECDN servers within an enterprise firewall are ICDN aware and thus can act as surrogate origin servers to host and serve ICDN content while ICDN servers topologically near an enterprise firewall are ECDN aware and thus can host and serve ECDN content . In a particular embodiment both ICDN aware ECDN servers and ECDN aware ICDN servers are provided and the CDNSP provides a managed service for the ICDN content servers and optionally for the ECDN content servers.

As noted above requesting end users are mapped to deployed ECDN servers via the ICDN request routing mechanism. In the first instance the CDNSP needs to ensure that no external user ever attempts to access any ECDN server even though the attempt would fail because the IP address is internal . Preferably this is achieved by privatizing the ECDN regions. With respect to mapping a first and preferred choice is to map each internal enterprise user to the ECDN region that is closest to them. There are several ways to do this. In one approach the enterprise IT administrator provides the CDNSP with a specification of the enterprise s internal network topology which is then hardcoded in a VIP map. Alternatively the CDNSP may periodically test the origin server and several ECDN server regions. The request routing mechanism then chooses the ECDN server region that responds first.

Authentication and access control are facilitated using mechanisms that are well known in the art. Thus for example the CDNSP the enterprise and or a third party may implement a key management infrastructure KMI that provides easy to use facilities for secure generation distribution and management of arbitrary keys e.g. ASCII certificates SSH keys edge server SSL certificates or the like . The components of a key management infrastructure typically include a key signing generation module a key escrow module an audit server a key distribution center KDC mechanism and a KDC database. The enterprise may issue to the CDNSP appropriate keys and the CDNSP then manages those keys on behalf of the enterprise. Or the enterprise may control the key generation and provide the keys to the CDNSP on an as needed basis and in a manner that prevents those keys from ever being stored on the ECDN disk in an unencrypted manner.

The present invention provides numerous advantages. The CDN content servers are deployed as a region behind i.e. within an enterprise s corporate firewall and used to deliver Internet content. Alternatively or in addition CDN content servers are deployed in region s located outside an enterprise firewall with strong authentication and access control such that intranet content can be served from those regions. In particular the current approach is to deploy a firewall and to have servers from an intranet application behind the firewall. Users on the corporate LAN access the servers by direct access and remote offices access the servers over a virtual private network VPN . The combination of VPN and firewall is the standard of security for IT organizations presently. In the ICDN for intranet content delivery embodiment where CDN servers are outside the corporate firewall preferably security is built through authentication and access control which allows the ICDN to separate the notion of what server a particular user connects to from what content the user is allowed to view. If desired the ICDN can still provide security through physical network access by creating a private map that maps all internal LAN users to the ICDN nodes deployed inside the firewall protected enterprise.

The notion of security described above allows great flexibility in providing enterprise services and for sharing of applications and data between enterprises. The ICDN can provide enterprise intranet content distribution using its existing ICDN infrastructure. A remote office that has Internet connectivity may then obtain good server from the CDN server node deployed nearby on the Internet. Likewise the ICDN can allow enterprises to share applications and data on each other s intranet. Users in each corporation connect to the closest ICDN server which may be inside the enterprise or may be deployed on the Internet near the enterprise.

Authentication and access control determine what content and applications each company can access from the other. Good authentication and access control separates deployment of ICDN nodes inside the enterprise firewall from issues of security and LAN deployment becomes solely an issue of performance for Internet intranet and partner content and applications. An enterprise can still make use use of ICDN intranet and application distribution services without deploying any servers inside the firewall and enterprises can share data without requiring special physical network connections for security and performance.

