---

title: Ceramic shroud assembly
abstract: A ceramic shroud assembly suitable for use in a gas turbine engine comprises a metal clamp ring shrink fitted around a ceramic shroud ring and an insulating and compliant interlayer. The interlayer is positioned between the metal clamp ring and the ceramic shroud ring.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07771160&OS=07771160&RS=07771160
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 07771160
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060810
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract number W31P4Q 05 D R002 awarded by the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command Operation and Service Directorate. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Reference is made to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 502 079 entitled TURBINE SHROUD THERMAL DISTORTION CONTROL filed on the same date as this application.

The present invention relates to an outer shroud assembly for use in a gas turbine engine. More particularly the present invention relates to a ceramic shroud assembly including a metal clamp ring shrink fitted around a ceramic shroud ring where the metal clamp ring is configured to attach to a turbine engine casing.

As gas turbine engine operating temperatures have been elevated in order to increase engine efficiency many metal alloy metal gas turbine engine components such as a shroud or rotor blade have been targeted to be replaced by ceramic equivalents. Ceramic materials are able to withstand higher operating temperatures and require less cooling than metals. Ceramic components are also generally less sensitive to thermal expansion than metal components because ceramic materials generally exhibit a lower coefficient of thermal expansion CTE than a metal.

In one type of gas turbine engine a static shroud ring is disposed radially outwardly from a turbine rotor which includes a plurality of blades radially extending from a disc. The shroud ring at least partially defines a flow path for combustion gases as the gases pass from a combustor through turbine stages. There is typically a gap between the shroud ring and rotor blade tips in order to accommodate thermal expansion of both components during operation of the engine. The gap decreases during engine operation as the rotor blades thermally expand in a radial direction in reaction to high operating temperatures. It has been found that ceramic rotor blade tips experience a reduced radial displacement as compared to metal rotor blades because ceramic materials posses a lower CTE than metals. As a result in a gas turbine engine incorporating ceramic rotor blades there is a relatively large gap or clearance between the blade tips and the shroud ring. It is generally desirable to minimize the gap between a blade tip and shroud ring in order to minimize the percentage of hot combustion gases that leak through the tip region of the blade. The leakage reduces the amount of energy that is transferred from the gas flow to the turbine blades which penalizes engine performance.

In order to minimize losses induced by relatively large clearances between rotor blade tips and static shroud rings some gas turbine engines are able to reduce the clearance by utilizing a ceramic shroud ring rather than a metal shroud ring. A ceramic shroud ring undergoes less thermal distortion during engine operation than many metal shroud rings due to the higher stiffness lower CTE and higher thermal conductivity of ceramic materials as compared to metals. Furthermore a ceramic shroud requires less cooling than a metal shroud because ceramic material is capable of withstanding higher operating temperatures.

In contrast to many metal shroud rings it is difficult to attach a ceramic shroud ring to a metal gas turbine engine casing because the ceramic material exhibits a low ductility and a lower CTE than the metal casing. In general stresses may generate at an interface between a ceramic component and a metal component because the ceramic and metal components react differently to the same temperature.

The present invention is a ceramic shroud assembly that allows a ceramic shroud to be attached to a metal gas turbine engine casing in a manner that compensates for a difference in CTEs between the ceramic and metal materials. The ceramic shroud assembly includes a metal clamp ring shrink fitted around a ceramic shroud and a compliant and insulating layer positioned between the ceramic shroud and the clamp ring. The metal clamp ring is configured to attach to the gas turbine engine casing thereby attaching the ceramic shroud to the casing. The ceramic shroud assembly also includes a ring configured to axially restrain the ceramic shroud.

During operation of gas turbine engine hot gases from combustion chamber enter first high pressure turbine stage through turbine inlet region . More specifically the hot gases move downstream indicated by arrow in an aft direction past a plurality of nozzle vanes . Nozzle vanes direct the flow of hot gases past rotor blades which radially extend from a rotor disc not shown as known in the art. Rotor blades may be attached to the rotor disk using a mechanical attachment such as a dovetail attachment or may be integral with the rotor i.e. an integrally bladed rotor . As known in the art shroud assembly defines an outer surface for guiding the flow of hot gases through first compressor turbine stage while platform positioned on an opposite end of rotor blade from shroud assembly defines an inner flow path surface.

Ceramic shroud assembly in accordance with the present invention includes clamp ring ceramic shroud interlayer which is positioned between clamp ring and ceramic shroud and axial restraint ring . Shroud assembly allows for relative movement between ceramic and metal parts i.e. between metal casing and ceramic shroud which helps compensate for a difference in thermal growth between metal casing and ceramic shroud . As discussed in the Background section when metal casing and ceramic shroud are directly interfaced stresses may generate at the interface because of the difference in CTE values between the ceramic and metal materials. The stresses may cause shroud to fail. Furthermore it is relatively difficult to attach ceramic shroud to metal gas turbine engine casing because the ceramic material exhibits a low ductility.

Shroud assembly of the present invention allows ceramic shroud to be attached to metal casing using metal clamp ring which is configured to attach to metal turbine casing such as by a mechanical attachment means e.g. bolts . As discussed in further detail below metal clamp ring is shrink fit around ceramic shroud and interlayer which allows metal clamp ring and shroud to be attached yet allows for relative thermal growth therebetween without generating undue stress on shroud . Shrink fitting is a process in which heat is used to produce a very strong joint between two components one of which is at least partially inserted into the other. In the present invention clamp ring is heated to a preheat temperature which causes clamp ring to expand. Upon expansion ceramic shroud and interlayer are inserted into clamp ring . After clamp ring cools clamp ring contracts thereby compressing or clamping ceramic shroud and interlayer . In this way clamp ring holds shroud assembly together by interference fit.

Clamp ring is formed of a metal such as a nickel base alloy. Front face A of clamp ring abuts axial restraint ring while aft face B abuts an aft surface of ceramic shroud assembly . Flange C of clamp ring is configured to mate with casing . In alternate embodiments flange C may extend from clamp ring in a different direction or may be removed from clamp ring depending on a structure of casing . In one embodiment clamp ring and turbine casing exhibit similar CTE values. In another embodiment clamp ring and turbine casing exhibit different CTE values and clamp ring is attached to turbine casing using an attachment means allowing for relative growth therebetween e.g. a U slot . However in either embodiment metal clamp ring and metal casing interface rather than metal casing interfacing directly with ceramic shroud which helps prevent the formation of stresses at an interface between ceramic shroud and metal casing .

Clamp ring includes a plurality of cooling holes which are circumferentially positioned near front face A. Similarly casing includes a plurality of cooling holes . In order to cool shroud which is exposed to hot combustion gases cooling air is bled from a compressor region of turbine engine to plenum and through cooling holes in casing and cooling holes in clamp ring . Air seal may optionally be placed near aft face B of clamp ring in order to help direct cooling air from cooling holes through cooling holes and minimize cooling air leakage.

Ceramic shroud is a continuous uninterrupted annular ring having a substantially constant thickness measured in a radial direction . Of course in alternate embodiments shroud may also be formed of a plurality of split shroud segments in an annular arrangement. However a continuous ring improves sealing about the outer flow path through first compressor stage which helps increase the efficiency of turbine engine by minimizing leakages of hot gases. Ceramic shroud may be formed of any suitable material known in the art such as silicon nitride.

Interlayer is formed of a thermally insulating and compliant material exhibiting a relatively high compressive yield stress e.g. greater than about 6 10kilopascals kPa . In one embodiment interlayer is formed of mica which exhibits a through thickness CTE of about 15 10 C. to about 20 10 C.

During operation of gas turbine engine high operating temperatures cause clamp ring and shroud to expand i.e. thermal growth . Clamp ring is formed of a metal while shroud is formed of a ceramic material and due to the difference in CTE values between metals and ceramics clamp ring is likely to encounter more thermal growth than shroud during operation of gas turbine engine . In order to help absorb the thermal growth mismatch and help prevent stresses from forming between clamp ring and shroud due to the difference in CTE values interlayer is positioned between clamp ring and shroud . Interlayer is formed of a compliant and thermally insulative material. The compliancy of interlayer helps absorb the thermal growth mismatch between clamp ring and . Because interlayer is also thermally insulative interlayer also helps isolate clamp ring from combustion gases and heat flow from shroud which is at a high temperature due to the flow of hot gases between platform and shroud to clamp ring . Finally interlayer also helps prevent any chemical reaction between clamp ring and shroud which are formed of different materials.

Interlayer includes first portion A and second portion B. A thickness of first portion A is greater than a thickness of second portion B. In the embodiment illustrated in first portion A of interlayer is about 2.54 millimeters 100 mils thick while second portion B is about 1.27 millimeters 50 mils thick. In the embodiment shown in only first portion A of interlayer contacts both clamp ring and shroud . First portion A is preferably substantially centered in the middle i.e. midway between front axial face A and aft axial face B of shroud so that shroud does not cone under the compressive stress of clamp ring . Second portion B covers approximately one third of an aft portion i.e. the portion closest to aft axial face B of shroud as well as aft axial face B. Second portion B of interlayer thermally insulates the aft portion of shroud as well as aft axial face which helps to even out a temperature distribution across shroud as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 502 079 entitled TURBINE SHROUD THERMAL DISTORTION CONTROL which was filed on the same date as the present application. In alternate embodiments the percentage of shroud covered by interlayer may be adjusted depending upon the desired temperature distribution across shroud .

Axial restraint ring abuts front face A of clamp ring A and front face A of shroud and helps restrain shroud in an axial direction. Details of one embodiment of axial restraint ring are described in reference to .

After heating clamp ring shroud and interlayer which are typically at room temperature approximately 21 23 C. i.e. unexpanded are introduced into expanded clamp ring . In one embodiment interlayer is attached to shroud before being introduced into clamp ring . Because clamp ring is expanded to radius R shroud and interlayer which are approximately at room temperature are able to fit within clamp ring . First portion A of interlayer has outer radius R while second portion B of interlayer has outer radius R which is less than radius R. In one embodiment outer radius Rof first portion A is approximately equal to radius Rof heated and expanded clamp ring .

The preheat temperature of clamp ring affects a clamp load which is applied to ceramic shroud and interlayer . Generally the higher the preheat temperature the higher the clamp load and the higher the stress in clamp ring for a given radius at the preheat temperature after metal clamp ring is brought back down to room temperature . This relationship is attributable to the fact that in a typical shrink fit process the amount clamp ring expands i.e. the difference between Rand R is generally proportional to the amount clamp ring shrinks upon being returned to room temperature. The more clamp ring shrinks the greater the stresses generated in clamp ring and the greater the load clamp ring exerts on shroud . As a result of the relationship between clamp ring expansion stresses in clamp ring and clamp loads the preheat temperature is chosen based on the desirable stresses and clamp loads. The preheat temperature is preferably low enough to prevent metal clamp ring from exceeding its yield limit or creep strength. On the other hand the preheat temperature is preferably high enough to achieve a clamp load that is sufficient enough to hold shroud assembly together during all engine operation levels e.g. from start up to shutdown .

A finite element analysis was conducted with respect to one embodiment of gas turbine engine . The following preheat temperatures and associated stresses and clamp loads resulted 

The finite element analysis was conducted with respect to three preheat temperatures which are listed in Column 1 of Table 1. Column 2 lists the maximum Von Mises stress values for clamp ring after clamp ring is heated to the respective preheat temperature listed in Column 1 to reach a radius R from radius R and subsequently cooled to room temperature. Column 3 lists for each of the preheat temperatures the maximum Von Mises stress value for metal clamp ring during gas turbine engine steady state conditions at which condition metal clamp ring is exposed to operating temperatures of up to 426 C. about 800 F. . Column 4 lists for each of the preheat temperatures the first principal stress in shroud at room temperature after metal clamp ring is shrink fit around shroud and interlayer . Column 5 lists for each of the preheat temperatures the first principal stress in shroud during gas turbine engine steady state conditions. Column 6 lists for each of the preheat temperatures the clamp load metal clamp ring exerts on shroud at room temperature. And finally Column 7 lists for each of the preheat temperatures the clamp load metal clamp ring exerts on shroud during gas turbine engine steady state conditions.

As seen from the data listed in Table 1 as the preheat temperature increases the Von Mises stress in clamp ring and clamp load applied by clamp ring increase at both room temperature and engine steady state conditions. Both the Von Mises stress and clamp load drop from room temperature conditions to steady state conditions because clamp ring expands in response to the increased operating temperatures and clamp ring expands more than shroud due to the difference to CTE of ceramic shroud and metal clamp ring . When clamp ring expands more than shroud the amount of interference fit between clamp ring and shroud is decreased. In one embodiment clamp ring is formed of Inconel 783 which is an oxidation resistant nickel based superalloy. Inconel 783 exhibits a yield stress of about 7.58 10kPa about 110 ksi per square inch ksi . At each of the preheat temperatures in Table 1 the maximum Von Mises stress for clamp ring is below the yield stress of Inconel 783. Therefore for clamp ring formed of Inconel 783 preheat temperatures ranging from about 204 C. to about 316 C. are suitable.

Maintaining a suitable clamp load during engine transient conditions i.e. when a transition is made from one engine power output level to another is also in important factor in determining the preheat temperature. Due to different CTE and heat transfer characteristics of metal clamp ring and ceramic shroud a thermal response of metal clamp ring and ceramic shroud to the same power output level can differ which may impact the clamp load. For example during engine start up ceramic shroud typically heats up faster than metal clamp ring because of a more rapid change in heat transfer boundary conditions of shroud . That is because shroud is directly exposed to hot combustion gases shroud tends to heat up and expand faster than clamp ring . When shroud expands faster than clamp ring clamp load and stress in clamp ring increases because shroud pushes against clamp ring . Therefore it is important to know what is the minimum clamp load during engine transient.

Engine start up and shut down were simulated using finite element analysis in order to determine the load exerted by clamp ring on shroud and the Von Mises stress of clamp ring . Table 2 illustrates the results of the finite element analysis for stresses and clamp loads during engine start up conditions 

Table 3 illustrates the results of the finite element analysis for stresses and clamp loads during engine shutdown conditions 

In the embodiment in which clamp ring is formed of Inconel 783 the stresses in clamp ring remain below the yield stress of Inconel 783 about 7.58 10kPa during engine start up and shutdown conditions when the preheat temperature of clamp ring is up to about 316 C. Thus for an Inconel 783 clamp ring or a material exhibiting similar properties a preheat temperature of about 316 C. is suitable.

During engine shutdown shroud contracts faster than clamp ring and it is critical to maintain a minimum clamp load. As shown in Table 3 at engine shutdown minimum clamp loads drop compared to clamp loads at steady state engine operating conditions detailed in Table 1 . A concern at engine shutdown is whether clamp ring will apply sufficient clamp load on shroud . As previously discussed the preheat temperature is dependent upon the desirable clamp loads. For example if a clamp load of approximately 7.18 kN needs to be maintained at all times to maintain the integrity of shroud assembly the lower limit of a preheat temperature is about 260 C.

It is also desirable for ceramic shroud to remain under compression for substantially all engine conditions because ceramic material is stronger in a compressive stress state than in a tensile stress state. For an Inconel 783 clamp ring it has been found that if the preheat temperature is selected in the range of about 260 C. to about 316 C. ceramic shroud remains under compression for all engine conditions while at the same time clamp ring operates below its yield limit.

Radial cuts in axial restraint ring define a plurality of radial tabs that are configured to push against front face A of shroud shown in in order to axially restraint shroud and prevent movement of shroud in an upstream direction shown in . In one embodiment tabs are coated with a coating that reduces heat transfer from shroud to tabs and prevents reaction between axial restraint ring and shroud . The coating may be for example a ceramic thermal barrier coating known in the art such as yttria stabilized zirconia. Radial cuts also allow for cooling air from chamber which has flowed through cooling holes in casing and cooling holes in metal clamp ring to cool axial restraint ring .

Taper angle S of shroud is governed by a frictional coefficient that is necessary to keep shroud located axially i.e. prevent shroud from moving in aft or downstream direction or upstream direction . For a high coefficient of friction e.g. 0.6 taper angle S may be up to 31 with respect to line without compromising the axial location of shroud . Although there is a radial component to the force with which clamp ring compresses shroud the embodiment of shroud assembly in also provides an axial force that pushes shroud in the aft direction indicated by arrow against aft surface B of clamp ring thereby helping to prevent shroud from moving in the aft direction . As an additional measure for maintaining the axial location of shroud front face A of shroud is axially restrained by second axial restraint ring .

While a shroud assembly in accordance with the present invention has been described in reference to a first high pressure turbine stage the inventive shroud assembly is suitable for incorporation into any turbine stage of a gas turbine engine as well as any other application of a shroud ring.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of description not limitation. Specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as bases for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention. Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

