---

title: System and method for storing energy
abstract: A self-recharging battery comprising a generator and an energy storage device contained within the battery case. The generator comprises a magnetic structure configured to generate a compressed magnetic field and a coil configured to focus the compressed magnetic field in electrical conductive elements of the coil.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07688036&OS=07688036&RS=07688036
owner: Battelle Energy Alliance, LLC
number: 07688036
owner_city: Idaho Falls
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060626
---
This invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. DE AC07 05 ID14517 awarded by the United States Department of Energy. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

This disclosure generally relates to a system and method for storing energy and more particularly to a system and method for portably converting energy into an electrical current and storing the energy.

Conventional portable energy storage devices such as conventional batteries and storage capacitors are either disposable or rechargeable by coupling the device to a remote source of electrical energy. Disposable devices inherently limit the amount of portable stored energy available to a user. Carrying extra disposable devices is expensive and a user must accommodate associated weight storage space and disposal requirements. They also are environmentally unfriendly. Conventional rechargeable devices are more environmentally friendly than non rechargeable devices but a remote source of energy is required to recharge the devices and the energy available between accesses to the remote source of energy is limited. In addition recharging requires user intervention.

Conventional shake flashlights and similar shake activated devices provide for storing limited amounts of energy enough to power for example an LED for a brief period of time but typically do not produce enough energy to power a conventional flashlight light bulb and other high current draw devices for example a cell phone a camera a GPS system or a conventional flashlight. They also are bulky and require physical activity expressly directed to charging the device. In addition conventional shake activated devices are not readily deployable to power another portable device. They also produce objectionable levels of magnetic fields that can potentially interfere with the operation of electronic devices such as cell phones and health related devices such as pacemakers.

Conventional crank powered devices have much more energy storage capabilities than conventional shake activated devices but similarly are bulky require physical activity expressly directed to recharging the device are not readily deployable to power another portable device and may generate objectionable levels of magnetic fields.

Electro magnetic and electro mechanical devices and applications such as for example motors generators and alternators typically employ coils and or magnets. Conventional magnetic structures employ a single magnet to generate a magnetic field or a plurality of magnets arranged to generate a magnetic field. The magnets are typically permanent magnets or electromagnets. The efficiency of many applications is dependant on the gradient of the magnetic field generated by the magnetic structure.

When an increase in output or performance was desired conventionally the size or number of coils was increased or the size or strength of the magnets would be increased. These approaches introduce weight cost size and durability issues. These approaches also are not practical for many applications. Therefore it can be appreciated that there is a need for improved coils and magnets for use in electro magnetic and electromechanical devices and applications.

In one embodiment a coil comprises an electrical conductive winding and a magnetic conductive winding configured to focus magnetic flux in the electrical conductive winding. In one embodiment the coil further comprises a winding form. In one embodiment a first layer on the winding form comprises a layer of the electrical conductive winding. In one embodiment a second layer of the electrical conductive winding is adjacent to the first layer on the winding form. In one embodiment a layer of the magnetic conductive winding is adjacent to the second layer of the electrical conductive winding. In one embodiment a layer of the magnetic conductive winding is adjacent to the first layer on the winding form. In one embodiment a last layer on the winding form comprises a layer of the electrical conductive winding. In one embodiment a last layer on the winding form comprises a layer of the electrical conductive winding. In one embodiment a layer of the magnetic conductive winding is between two layers of the electric conductive winding. In one embodiment a plurality of layers of the magnetic conductive winding is between two layers of the electric conductive winding. In one embodiment the magnetic conductive winding forms a closed loop. In one embodiment the coil has a trapezoidal shaped portion. In one embodiment the coil is wound around a core. In one embodiment the electrical conductive winding and the magnetic conductive winding together comprise a dual conductor winding. In one embodiment the magnetic conductive winding comprises a silver nickel alloy. In one embodiment the coil further comprises a layer of insulating material wherein the electrical conductive winding comprises a trace formed on the layer of insulation material.

In one embodiment a winding comprises an electrical conductive wire and a magnetic conductive wire insulated from and secured to the electrical conductive wire and configured to focus magnetic flux in the electrical conductive wire. In one embodiment the magnetic conductive wire forms a closed loop. In one embodiment the magnetic conductive wire is secured to the magnetic conductive wire by an insulating material. In one embodiment the magnetic conductive wire forms a core of the winding and is surrounded by an insulating layer and the electrical conductive wire surrounds the insulating layer. In one embodiment the electrical conductive wire comprises a stranded wire.

In one embodiment a system comprises a magnetic structure and a coil the coil comprising an electrical conductive winding and a magnetic conductive winding configured to focus magnetic flux in the electrical conductive winding. In one embodiment the system is configured to receive energy and to generate an electrical signal in response to the receipt of the energy. In one embodiment the system further comprises a mechanical transmission system configured to receive the energy. In one embodiment the mechanical transmission system is coupled to the magnetic structure and configured to move the magnet structure with respect to the coil in response to the receipt of energy. In one embodiment the mechanical transmission system is configured to move the magnetic structure in a linear manner. In one embodiment the mechanical transmission system is configured to move the magnetic structure in a rotational manner. In one embodiment the mechanical transmission system is configured to move the magnetic structure in a radial manner. In one embodiment the mechanical transmission system is coupled to the coil and configured to move the coil with respect to the magnetic structure in response to the receipt of energy. In one embodiment the coil is configured to receive an electrical signal and the system is configured to generate mechanical force in response to the receipt of the electrical signal. In one embodiment the system further comprises a mechanical transmission system.

In one embodiment a system comprises a coil comprising means for conducting an electric signal and means for focusing magnetic flux in the means for conducting an electrical signal and a magnetic structure. In one embodiment the means for focusing magnetic flux comprises a winding comprising a silver nickel alloy. In one embodiment the means for conducting an electrical signal comprises a stranded copper wire. In one embodiment the coil further comprises a first insulating substrate and the means for conducting an electrical signal comprises an electrical conductive trace formed on the first insulating substrate. In one embodiment the means for focusing magnetic flux comprises a magnetic conductive trace formed on the first insulating substrate. In one embodiment the electrical conductive trace is formed on a first surface of the first insulating substrate and the magnetic conductive trace is formed on the first surface of the first insulating substrate. In one embodiment the coil further comprises a plurality of insulating substrates and the means for conducting an electric signal comprises a plurality of electrical conductive traces formed on selected substrates in the plurality of substrates and the means for focusing magnetic flux comprises a plurality of magnetic conductive traces formed on selected substrates in the plurality of substrates.

In one embodiment a method for generating an electrical signal comprises causing relative movement between a magnetic structure and an electrical conductive winding and focusing magnetic flux generated by the magnetic structure in the electrical conductive winding using a magnetic conductive winding. In one embodiment the method further comprises forming a closed loop with the magnetic conductive winding.

In one embodiment a coil comprises a plurality of insulating substrates a plurality of electrical conductive traces formed on a first set of selected substrates in the plurality of substrates and a plurality of magnetic conductive traces formed on a second set of selected substrates in the plurality of substrates. In one embodiment the first set of selected substrates comprises every other insulating substrate in the plurality of insulating substrates and the plurality of electrical conductive traces consists of an electrical conductive trace formed on each of the plurality of insulating substrates in the first set of selected substrates. In one embodiment the plurality of electrical conductive traces are electrically coupled in series. In one embodiment the plurality of magnetic conductive traces are electrically coupled together to form a closed loop.

In one embodiment a method of generating mechanical force comprises generating a magnetic field focusing the magnetic field in an electrical conductive element and conducting a current through the electrical conductive element. In one embodiment the current is an alternating current. In one embodiment the method further comprises applying the mechanical force so as to generate a linear movement in a transmission system. In one embodiment the method further comprises applying the mechanical force so as to generate a rotational movement in a transmission system. In one embodiment the method further comprises applying the mechanical force so as to generate a radial movement in a transmission system. In one embodiment the current is a direct current. In one embodiment the electrical conductive element comprises layers of an electrical conductive winding and focusing the magnetic field in the electrical conductive winding comprises inserting a magnetic conductive winding between two layers of the electrical conductive winding. In one embodiment the magnetic conductive winding forms a closed loop.

In one embodiment a system comprises a first magnet housing a first magnet secured within the first magnet housing and having a first pole of a first polarity and a second pole of a second polarity and a second magnet having a first pole of the first polarity and a second pole of the second polarity secured within the first magnet housing such that the first pole of the second magnet is held spaced apart a distance from and generally facing the first pole of the first magnet so as to generate a compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the first magnet comprises a rare earth magnet. In one embodiment the system further comprises a coil. In one embodiment the system is configured to receive energy and to generate an electrical signal in response to the receipt of the energy. In one embodiment the system is configured to receive an electrical signal and to generate mechanical force in response to the electrical signal. In one embodiment the system further comprises a mechanical transmission system. In one embodiment the mechanical transmission system is coupled to the first magnet housing and configured to move the first magnet housing with respect to the coil in response to the receipt of the energy. In one embodiment the mechanical transmission system is configured to move the first magnet housing in a linear manner. In one embodiment the mechanical transmission system is configured to rotate the first magnet housing. In one embodiment the system further comprises a third magnet having a first pole of the first polarity and a second pole of the second polarity secured within the first magnet housing such that the second pole of the third magnet is held spaced apart a distance from and generally facing the second pole of the first magnet so as to generate a compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the coil is configured to pass between the first and second magnets as the first magnet housing is rotated. In one embodiment the mechanical transmission system is coupled to the coil and configured to move the coil with respect to the first magnet housing in response to a receipt of energy. In one embodiment the mechanical transmission system comprises a repelling magnet. In one embodiment the mechanical transmission system comprises a mechanical repelling system. In one embodiment the coil is configured to receive an electrical signal and the system is configured to move the first magnet housing with respect to the coil in response to the receipt of the electrical signal. In one embodiment the system is configured to receive energy and to move the first magnet housing with respect to the coil in response to the receipt of the energy. In one embodiment the system further comprises a second coil. In one embodiment the coil has an axis that is at least generally aligned with an axis along which the first magnet housing is configured to move relative to the coil. In one embodiment the system further comprises a second magnet housing a third magnet secured within the second magnet housing and having a first pole of a first polarity and a second pole of a second polarity and a fourth magnet having a first pole of the first polarity and a second pole of the second polarity secured within the second magnet housing such that the first pole of the third magnet is held spaced apart a distance from and generally facing the first pole of the fourth magnet so as to generate a compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the second magnet housing is substantially perpendicular to the first magnet housing. In one embodiment the system further comprises a second coil. In one embodiment the first magnet housing is gimbaled. In one embodiment the electrical signal comprises a DC current. In one embodiment the electrical signal comprises an AC current and the system further comprises rectification circuitry coupled to the coil and configured to convert the AC current to a DC current. In one embodiment the system further comprises a power storage system coupled to the rectification circuitry for accumulating and storing power generated by the system. In one embodiment the system further comprises an inverter coupled to the power storage system and configured to supply alternating current to an electricity distribution system. In one embodiment the system is configured to convert energy from waves into an electrical signal.

In one embodiment a magnetic structure comprises a magnet housing a first magnet secured within the magnet housing and having a first pole of a first polarity and a second pole of a second polarity and a second magnet having a first pole of the first polarity and a second pole of the second polarity secured within the magnet housing such that the first pole of the second magnet is held spaced apart a distance from and generally facing the first pole of the first magnet so as to generate a compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the first magnet comprises a permanent magnet. In one embodiment the first magnet comprises a rare earth magnet. In one embodiment the first magnet comprises an electromagnet. In one embodiment a space between the first and second magnets is substantially filled with a non magnet substance. In one embodiment the non magnetic substance comprises air. In one embodiment the non magnetic substance comprises a fluoropolymer resin. In one embodiment the magnetic structure further comprises a third magnet having a first pole of the first polarity and a second pole of the second polarity secured within the magnet housing such that the second pole of the third magnet is held spaced apart a distance from and generally facing the second pole of the first magnet so as to generate a compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the first polarity is a north polarity. In one embodiment a face of the first pole of the first magnet is at least generally planar. In one embodiment a face of the first pole of the second magnet is at least generally planar. In one embodiment a face of the first pole of the first magnet is at least generally convex. In one embodiment a face of the first pole of the first magnet is at least generally concave. In one embodiment the first magnet is generally rectangular. In one embodiment the first magnet is generally spherical. In one embodiment the magnetic structure further comprises a suspension system. In one embodiment the suspension system is gimbaled. In one embodiment gravitational forces are used to position the magnetic structure within the suspension system. In one embodiment the suspension system is configured to employ gyroscopic principles to position the magnetic structure. In one embodiment the magnet housing is evacuated and hermetically sealed.

In one embodiment a magnetic structure comprises a plurality of magnets and means for holding the magnets spaced apart with respect to each other and configured so as to generate a compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the means for holding the magnets comprises a magnet housing having a threaded inner surface. In one embodiment the means for holding the magnets comprises tabs configured to hold the plurality of magnets in fixed positions with respect to each other. In one embodiment the magnetic structure further comprises means for transmitting mechanical energy coupled to the means for holding the magnets.

In one embodiment a method of generating power comprises generating a compressed magnetic field using a plurality of spaced apart magnets and causing relative movement between an electrical conductive winding and the compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment generating the compressed magnetic field comprises holding the plurality of magnets spaced apart in a fixed position with respect to each other such that like poles of the magnets face each other so as to generate the compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the plurality of magnets consists of two magnets and a distance between the two magnets is less than an ambient distance. In one embodiment the method further comprises rectifying a current generated in the electrical conductive winding. In one embodiment the method further comprises storing the rectified current in an energy storage system. In one embodiment causing relative movement comprises moving the electrical conductive winding with respect to the plurality of magnets. In one embodiment causing relative movement comprises moving the plurality of magnets with respect to the electrical conductive winding. In one embodiment moving the plurality of magnets with respect to the electrical conductive winding comprises moving the plurality of magnets along a generally linear path. In one embodiment moving the plurality of magnets with respect to the electrical conductive winding comprises moving the plurality of magnets along a generally radial path. In one embodiment moving the plurality of magnets with respect to the electrical conductive winding comprises rotating the plurality of magnets. In one embodiment the method further comprises optimizing a gradient of the compressed magnetic field.

In one embodiment a method of generating mechanical force comprises generating a compressed magnetic field and conducting a current through an electrical conductive winding in the compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment generating the compressed magnetic field comprises holding a plurality of magnets spaced apart in a fixed position with respect to each other such that like poles of the magnets face each other so as to generate the compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the plurality of magnets consists of two magnets and a distance between the two magnets is less than an ambient distance. In one embodiment the current is an alternating current. In one embodiment the current is a direct current. In one embodiment the method further comprises applying the mechanical force so as to cause a generally linear movement in a transmission system. In one embodiment the method further comprises applying the mechanical force so as to cause a generally rotational movement in a transmission system.

In one embodiment a system comprises a coil having an electrical conductive winding and a magnetic conductive winding configured to focus magnetic flux in the electrical conductive winding and a magnetic structure configured to generate a compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the magnetic structure comprises a first magnet housing a first magnet secured within the first magnet housing and having a first pole of a first polarity and a second pole of a second polarity and a second magnet having a first pole of the first polarity and a second pole of the second polarity secured within the first magnet housing such that the first pole of the second magnet is held spaced apart a distance from and generally facing the first pole of the first magnet so as to generate the compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the system is configured to receive energy and to generate an electrical signal in response to the receipt of the energy. In one embodiment the electrical signal comprises an AC current and the system further comprises rectification circuitry coupled to the coil and configured to convert the AC current to a DC current. In one embodiment the electrical signal comprises a DC current. In one embodiment the system is configured to receive an electrical signal and to generate mechanical force in response to the electrical signal. In one embodiment the system further comprises a mechanical transmission system. In one embodiment the mechanical transmission system is coupled to the magnetic structure and configured to move the magnetic structure with respect to the coil in response to a receipt of energy. In one embodiment the mechanical transmission system is configured to move the magnetic structure in a linear manner. In one embodiment the mechanical transmission system is configured to rotate the magnetic structure. In one embodiment the mechanical transmission system is configured to move the magnetic structure along a radial path. In one embodiment the mechanical transmission system is coupled to the coil and configured to move the coil with respect to the magnetic structure in response to a receipt of energy. In one embodiment the coil is configured to receive an electrical signal and the system is configured to move the magnetic structure with respect to the coil in response to the receipt of the electrical signal. In one embodiment the system is configured to receive energy and to move the magnetic structure with respect to the coil in response to the receipt of the energy. In one embodiment the system is configured to receive energy and to move the coil with respect to the magnetic structure in response to the receipt of the energy. In one embodiment the coil has an axis that is at least generally aligned with an axis along which the magnetic structure is configured to move relative to the coil. In one embodiment the system further comprises a gimbaled suspension system. In one embodiment the system is configured to convert energy from waves into an electrical signal. In one embodiment the magnetic conductive winding is configured as a closed loop. In one embodiment the system further comprises an article of clothing configured for coupling the system to a person. In one embodiment the system further comprises a coupler configured to couple the coil to an electrical transmission grid.

In one embodiment a method of generating power comprises generating a compressed magnetic field using a plurality of spaced apart magnets moving an electrical conductive winding with respect to the compressed magnetic field and focusing magnetic flux in the electrical conductive winding using a magnetic conductive winding. In one embodiment generating the compressed magnetic field comprises holding the plurality of magnets spaced apart in a fixed position with respect to each other such that like poles of the magnets face each other so as to generate the compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the plurality of magnets consists of two magnets and a distance between the two magnets is less than an ambient distance. In one embodiment the method further comprises rectifying a current generated in the electrical conductive winding. In one embodiment the method further comprises storing the rectified current in an energy storage system. In one embodiment moving the electrical conductive winding with respect to the compressed magnetic field comprises moving the electrical conductive winding with respect to the plurality of magnets. In one embodiment moving the electrical conductive winding with respect to the compressed magnetic field comprises moving the plurality of magnets with respect to the electrical conductive winding. In one embodiment moving the plurality of magnets with respect to the electrical conductive winding comprises moving the plurality of magnets along a generally linear path. In one embodiment moving the plurality of magnets with respect to the electrical conductive winding comprises rotating the plurality of magnets. In one embodiment the method further comprises optimizing a gradient of the compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the magnetic conductive winding forms a closed loop. In one embodiment the method further comprises coupling the electrical conductive winding to an electrical transmission grid. In one embodiment the method further comprises generating an alternating current in the electrical conductive winding. In one embodiment the method further comprises generating a direct current in the electrical conductive winding.

In one embodiment a method of generating mechanical force comprises generating a compressed magnetic field focusing magnetic flux in an electrical conductive winding using a magnetic conductive winding and conducting a current through the electrical conductive winding in the compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment generating the compressed magnetic field comprises holding a plurality of magnets spaced apart in a fixed position with respect to each other such that like poles of the magnets face each other so as to generate the compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the plurality of magnets consists of two magnets and a distance between the two magnets is less than an ambient distance. In one embodiment the current is an alternating current. In one embodiment the current is a direct current. In one embodiment the method further comprises applying the mechanical force so as to cause a generally linear movement in a transmission system. In one embodiment the method further comprises applying the mechanical force so as to cause a generally rotational movement in a transmission system. In one embodiment the magnetic conductive winding forms a closed loop.

In one embodiment an article of clothing comprises a coil having an electrical conductive winding and a magnetic conductive winding configured to focus magnetic flux in the electrical conductive winding and a magnetic structure configured to generate a compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the magnetic structure comprises a first magnet housing a first magnet secured within the first magnet housing and having a first pole of a first polarity and a second pole of a second polarity and a second magnet having a first pole of the first polarity and a second pole of the second polarity secured within the first magnet housing such that the first pole of the second magnet is held spaced apart a distance from and generally facing the first pole of the first magnet so as to generate the compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the magnetic conductive winding forms a closed loop. In one embodiment the magnetic structure and the coil are contained within a battery case.

In one embodiment a system comprises a coil comprising means for conducting an electrical current in response to changes in magnetic flux and means for focusing magnetic flux in the means for conducting the electrical current and means for generating a compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the means for conducting the electrical current comprises an electrical conductive winding and the means for focusing magnetic flux comprises a magnetic conductive winding. In one embodiment the magnetic conductive winding forms a closed loop. In one embodiment the means for generating the compressed magnetic field comprises a first magnet housing a first magnet secured within the first magnet housing and having a first pole of a first polarity and a second pole of a second polarity and a second magnet having a first pole of the first polarity and a second pole of the second polarity secured within the first magnet housing such that the first pole of the second magnet is held spaced apart a distance from and generally facing the first pole of the first magnet so as to generate the compressed magnetic field.

In one embodiment a battery comprises a case a first generator contained within the case and configured to convert energy received by the battery into electrical energy a first energy storage device contained within the case a second energy storage device contained within the case a control module contained within the case coupled to the first and second energy storage devices and configured to control a transfer of the electrical energy from the first energy storage device to the second energy storage device and a plurality of contact terminals. In one embodiment the first energy storage device comprises an ultracapacitor and the second energy storage device comprises a lithium cell. In one embodiment the battery further comprises a third energy storage device. In one embodiment the third energy storage device is coupled in series with the second energy storage device. In one embodiment the third energy storage device is coupled in parallel with the first energy storage device. In one embodiment the battery further comprises a connector to house the plurality of contact terminals. In one embodiment the case and contact terminals have a configuration of a C cell battery. In one embodiment the first generator comprises a coil and a magnetic structure. In one embodiment the magnetic structure is configured to generate a compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the coil comprises an electrical conductive element and a magnetic conductive element. In one embodiment the magnetic structure is configured to generate a compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the plurality of contact terminals are electrically coupled to the control module. In one embodiment the battery further comprises a second generator contained within the case wherein the first generator is oriented in a first direction and the second generator is oriented in a second direction different from the first direction. In one embodiment the control module is further configured to control a transfer of energy between the second energy storage device and the contact terminals. In one embodiment the transfer of energy between the first energy storage device and the contact terminals comprises a transfer of energy from the contact terminals to the second energy storage device. In one embodiment the transfer of energy between the first energy storage device and the contact terminals comprises a transfer of energy from the contact terminals to the first energy storage device. In one embodiment the control module is further configured to control a transfer of energy between the first energy storage device and the contact terminals. In one embodiment the battery further comprises a suspension system coupled to the generator. In one embodiment the suspension system is tuned to optimize conversion of expected patterns of movement into electrical energy. In one embodiment the suspension system is gimbaled. In one embodiment the suspension system comprises a gyroscopic system. In one embodiment the generator is configured to convert energy received through movement of the battery. In one embodiment the generator is configured to convert energy received in a parasitic manner. In one embodiment the case comprises a magnetic shield.

In one embodiment a battery comprises a case a coil contained within the case a magnetic structure contained within the case and configured to generate a compressed magnetic field a first energy storage device contained within the case a plurality of contact terminals coupled to the case and a control module contained within the case and coupled to the coil and the first energy storage device. In one embodiment the magnetic structure comprises a plurality of spaced apart rare earth magnets configured so that like polarity poles face each other in neighboring magnets in the plurality of rare earth magnets. In one embodiment the magnets in the plurality of magnets are held in position with respect to one another. In one embodiment a space between two magnets in the plurality of magnets is substantially filled with a non magnet substance. In one embodiment the non magnetic substance comprises air. In one embodiment the non magnetic substance comprises a fluoropolymer resin. In one embodiment the case is evacuated and hermetically sealed. In one embodiment the battery further comprises a suspension system coupled to the magnetic structure. In one embodiment the suspension system is tuned to optimize conversion of expected patterns of movement into electrical energy. In one embodiment the coil comprises an electrical conductive element and a magnetic conductive element. In one embodiment the magnetic conductive element is configured to focus magnetic flux in the electrical conductive element.

In one embodiment a battery comprises a case a coil contained within the case and having an electrical conductive element and a magnetic conductive element a magnetic structure a first energy storage device contained within the case a plurality of contact terminals coupled to the case and a control module contained within the case and coupled to the coil and the first energy storage device. In one embodiment the magnetic conductive element is configured to focus magnetic flux in the electrical conductive element. In one embodiment the electrical conductive element comprises a electrical conductive wire in a multi wire winding and the magnetic conductive element comprises a magnetic conductive wire in the multi wire winding. In one embodiment the electrical conductive element comprises an electrical conductive winding and the magnetic conductive element comprises a magnetic conductive winding. In one embodiment the electrical conductive element comprises an electrical conductive trace formed on a first insulating substrate. In one embodiment the magnetic conductive element comprises a magnetic conductive trace formed on the first insulating substrate. In one embodiment the electrical conductive trace is formed on a first surface of the first insulating substrate and the magnetic conductive trace is formed on the first surface of the first insulating substrate. In one embodiment the battery further comprises a plurality of insulating substrates wherein the electrical conductive element comprises a plurality of electrical conductive traces formed on selected substrates in the plurality of substrates and the magnetic conductive element comprises a plurality of magnetic conductive traces formed on selected substrates in the plurality of substrates. In one embodiment the magnetic structure is configured to generate a compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment a contact terminal of the plurality of contact terminals is electrically coupled to a contact terminal of an external battery. In one embodiment the battery has a first physical orientation and the external battery has a second physical orientation different from the first physical orientation.

In one embodiment a battery comprises a case means for converting movement of the battery into an electric current first means for storing energy contained within the case second means for storing energy contained within the case means for controlling a transfer of energy from the means for converting movement to the first means for storing energy contained within the case and means for accessing energy stored in the first means for storing energy. In one embodiment the battery further comprises third means for storing energy contained within the case. In one embodiment the means for converting movement comprises means for conducting an electric current and means for generating a magnetic field. In one embodiment the means for generating a magnetic field is configured to generate a compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the battery further comprises means for conducting magnetic flux. In one embodiment the battery further comprises means for facilitating relative movement of the means for conducting an electric current with respect to the means for generating a magnetic field.

In one embodiment a method of operating a battery comprises moving the battery converting energy received through the movement of the battery into an electric current and controlling transfers of energy to a plurality of energy storage devices contained within the battery. In one embodiment controlling transfers of energy comprises storing energy from the electric current in a first energy storage device in the plurality of energy storage devices and controlling a transfer of energy from the first energy storage device to a second energy storage device in the plurality of energy storage devices. In one embodiment controlling transfers of energy comprises rectifying the electric current. In one embodiment the method further comprises controlling a transfer of energy from the battery to a load. In one embodiment the method further comprises providing an electric current to the battery and controlling a storage in the battery of energy from the provided electric current. In one embodiment converting energy received through the movement of the battery into the electric current comprises generating a compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment converting energy received through the movement of the battery into the electric current further comprises focusing the compressed magnetic field in an electrical conductive winding. In one embodiment generating the compressed magnetic field comprises holding two magnets spaced apart with like poles facing each other at a distance closer than an ambient distance. In one embodiment converting energy received through the movement of the battery into the electric current comprises focusing a magnetic field in an electrical conductive element. In one embodiment focusing the magnetic field in the electrical conductive element comprises positioning a magnetic conductive element with respect to the electrical conductive element so as to focus the magnetic field. In one embodiment converting energy received through the movement of the battery into the electric current comprises orienting a generator contained within the battery. In one embodiment converting the energy received through the movement of the battery into the electric current comprises converting the energy into relative movement between an electrical conductive winding and a magnetic field. In one embodiment the relative movement is generally linear. In one embodiment the relative movement is generally rotational.

In one embodiment a system comprises a first battery having a first orientation and comprising means for converting energy into a first electrical signal and a second battery electrically coupled to the first battery and having a second orientation and comprising second means for converting energy into a second electrical signal. In one embodiment the second orientation is substantially perpendicular to the first orientation. In one embodiment the means for converting energy into the first electrical signal comprises a control module configured to control a transfer of electrical energy from a first energy storage device to a second energy storage device. In one embodiment the means for converting energy into the first electrical signal comprises means for generating a compressed magnetic field. In one embodiment the means for converting energy into the first electrical signal comprises an electrical conductive winding and a magnetic conductive winding configured to focus magnetic flux in the electrical conductive winding.

In the following description certain details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of devices methods and articles. However one of skill in the art will understand that other embodiments may be practiced without these details. In other instances well known structures and methods associated with batteries linear generators and control systems have not been shown or described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring descriptions of the embodiments.

Unless the context requires otherwise throughout the specification and claims which follow the word comprise and variations thereof such as comprising and comprises are to be construed in an open inclusive sense that is as including but not limited to. 

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment or to all embodiments. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments to obtain further embodiments.

The headings are provided for convenience only and do not interpret the scope or meaning of this disclosure or the claimed invention.

A first layer and a second layer of the electrical conductive winding are wound onto the winding form . In one embodiment the electrical conductive winding is continuous. In other embodiments the electrical conductive winding may comprise a plurality of windings which may be electrically connected in series or in parallel. A first layer of the magnetic conductive winding is wound over the second layer of the electrical conductive winding . A third layer and a fourth layer of the electrical conductive winding are wound over the first layer of the magnetic conductive winding . A second layer of the magnetic conductive winding is wound over the fourth layer of the electrical conductive winding . A fifth layer of the electrical conductive winding is wound over the second layer of the magnetic conductive winding .

The electrical conductive winding may comprise any suitable electrically conductive material such as for example metallic materials such as copper copper coated with silver or tin aluminum silver gold and or alloys. The electrical conductive winding may comprise for example solid wires strands twisted strands or sheets. The electrical conductive winding may vary significantly in size from the illustration and may be substantially smaller or substantially larger than illustrated. The electrical conductive winding is typically covered with an insulating material . The electrical conductive winding is coupled to the leads for the coil .

The magnetic conductive winding may comprise any suitable magnetic conductive material for example a magnetic shielding material such as for example nickel nickel iron alloys nickel tin alloys nickel silver alloys plastic magnetic shielding and or nickel iron copper molybdenum alloys. Magnetic shielding materials are commercially available under several trademarks including MuMetal Hipernom HyMu 80 and Permalloy . The magnetic conductive winding may comprise for example solid wires strands twisted strands or sheets. The magnetic conductive winding may vary significantly in size from the illustration and may be substantially smaller or substantially larger than illustrated. The magnetic conductive winding is typically covered with an insulating material . The magnetic conductive winding forms a closed loop as illustrated by the connection and as illustrated is connected to a ground .

Other configurations of layers of an electrical conductive winding and a magnetic conductive winding may be employed. For example m layers of an electrical conductive winding may alternate with n layers of a magnetic conductive winding instead of two layers of electrical conductive winding alternating with one layer of magnetic conductive winding as illustrated with m and n positive integers. In another example m and n need not remain constant. For example the number of layers may increase or decrease. An example layer pattern would be 2E 1M 3E 2M 4E with E indicating electrically conductive layers and M indicating magnetically conductive layers.

Typically the first and last layers comprise layers of the electrical conductive winding . In one experimental embodiment a configuration with the first and last layer comprising the electrical conductive winding produced better performance in a generator application than when the last layer was comprised of the magnetic conductive winding . In another example a plurality of electrical conductive windings could be employed.

The electrical conductive wire may comprise any suitable electrical conductive material. For example the materials and configurations e.g. solid wire or stranded wire discussed above with respect to the electrical conductive winding of may be employed. The electrical conductive wire is coupled to the leads for the coil . The magnetic conductive wire may comprise any suitable magnetic conductive material. For example the materials and configurations e.g. solid wire or stranded wire discussed above with respect to the magnetic conductive winding of may be employed. The magnetic conductive wire forms a closed loop as illustrated by the connection and may be connected to a ground . As illustrated the winding is wound so that the electrical conductive wire is closest to an inner surface of the winding form and the magnetic conductive wire is farthest from the inner surface of the winding form . As illustrated the insulating layer separating the electrical conductive wire and the magnetic conductive wire is approximately parallel to the inner surface . In some embodiments the insulating layer separating the electrical conductive wire and the magnetic conductive wire may be at another angle with respect to the inner surface . For example in some embodiments the insulating layer may be approximately perpendicular to the inner surface . As illustrated the dual conductor winding is a single layer comprising three turns. In some embodiments the winding may comprise multiple layers. In some embodiments additional windings may be employed.

The electrical conductive windings . . . may comprise any suitable electrical conductive material. For example the materials and configurations e.g. solid wire or stranded wire discussed above with respect to the electrical conductive winding of may be employed. The electrical conductive windings . . . may vary significantly in size from the illustration and may be substantially smaller or substantially larger than illustrated. The magnetic conductive windings . . . may comprise any suitable magnetic conductive material. For example the materials and configurations e.g. solid wire or stranded wire discussed above with respect to the magnetic conductive winding of may be employed. The magnetic conductive windings . . . may vary significantly in size from the illustration and may be substantially smaller or substantially larger than illustrated. A bi metal winding may be employed such as the bi metal winding illustrated in or the bi metal winding illustrated in . Typically the coil would have additional layers of each winding with the outer layer comprising a layer of the electrical conductive winding e.g. winding but for ease of illustration the additional layers are omitted.

The electrical conductive winding may comprise any suitable electrical conductive material and configuration. For example the materials and configurations e.g. solid wire or stranded wire discussed above with respect the electrical conductive winding of may be employed. The electrical conductive winding is typically covered with an insulating material . The electrical conductive winding is coupled to the leads for the coil . The magnetic conductive winding may comprise any suitable magnetic conductive material and configuration. For example the materials and configurations e.g. solid wire or stranded wire discussed above with respect to the magnetic conductive winding of may be employed. The magnetic conductive winding is typically covered with an insulating material . The magnetic conductive winding forms a closed loop as illustrated by the connection and may be connected to a ground See ground in . Some embodiments may employ a bi metal or dual conducting winding see dual conductor winding illustrated in .

The winding form has an inner length and an outer length that are different. As illustrated the inner length is shorter than the outer length . This difference in length facilitates focusing of a magnetic field in the electrical conductive winding .

As mentioned above coils are frequently employed in devices and applications together with magnets. Bi metal coils can be advantageously employed in such applications and environments with conventional magnets. is a graphic illustration of the magnetic flux generated by a conventional magnetic structure . The magnetic structure comprises a magnet having a north pole N and a south pole S. shows representative magnetic flux equipotential lines to illustrate the magnetic field that is generated by the permanent magnet of the magnetic structure . The closer the equipotential lines in a region the greater the magnetic flux density in the region.

Improvements however can be made to conventional magnetic structures. In many devices and applications increasing the magnetic flux density in a region can greatly improve efficiency and performance. For example increasing the magnetic flux density in a region can lead to a higher gradient which can lead to increased efficiency in for example a generator or a motor.

Significant improvements in efficiency for example in power generation can be achieved by positioning the magnets with like poles facing each other at an optimum distance between a touching configuration and an ambient distance. The optimum distance will vary depending upon the configuration in which the magnetic structure is to be employed e.g. the movement path of the magnetic structure with respect to a coil when the magnetic structure is employed in a generator motor configuration . is a cross sectional view of an embodiment of a multipole magnetic structure generating a plurality of compressed magnetic fields. In some applications generating a plurality of compressed magnetic fields can provide further increases in efficiency. The compressed magnetic fields may increase the efficiency of the conversion of energy into electrical energy when the magnetic structure is employed for example in a generator. Such generators may be configured to convert energy received in a parasitic manner. Typical sources of energy include kinetic sources thermal sources acoustic sources and radio frequency sources.

The magnetic structure employs tabs to hold the permanent magnets in position with respect to each other. While the illustrated embodiment employs three permanent magnets other embodiments may employ different numbers of permanent magnets such as two permanent magnets of four permanent magnets. Other embodiments may employ electromagnets instead of or in addition to permanent magnets. The permanent magnets are disk shaped as illustrated but other shapes may be employed. For example rectangular e.g. square spherical or elliptical shaped magnets may be employed. Similarly the faces of the magnets need not be flat. For example convex concave radial cone or diamond shaped faces may be employed. Various combinations of shapes and faces may be employed. While the illustrated embodiment employs tabs other positioning mechanisms may be employed such as threads spacers glues or combinations of positioning mechanisms. The magnets are positioned and held apart from each other and are arranged such that same polarity poles in adjacent permanent magnets face each other. For example the N pole of the first permanent magnet faces the N pole of the second permanent magnet and the S pole of the second permanent magnet faces the S pole of the third permanent magnet . In addition the magnets are held close enough together to form a compressed magnetic field e.g. closer than an ambient distance and spaced apart . In some embodiments the spaces between the permanent magnets are substantially filled with a material which may comprise a gas such as air. In some embodiments the material may comprise other substantially non magnet and substantially non conductive substances such as a fluoropolymer resin or plastic. In some embodiments the spaces between the magnets may be evacuated and hermetically sealed.

The shape position and strength of the permanent magnets in a magnetic structure such as the magnetic structure can increase the efficiency of a device or application employing the magnetic structure such as a generator by generating a compressed magnetic field. A gauss meter not shown may be employed to determine the optimum strength and positioning of the permanent magnets as well as the number of permanent magnets. Other design considerations may be taken into consideration as well such as weight and reducing external impacts of electromagnetic fields and control of multiple generator magnetic interaction.

Embodiments of dual conductor or bi metal coils and or embodiments of magnet structures configured to generate compressed magnet fields such as those described above may be advantageously employed in a number of devices and applications. For example embodiments of dual conductor or bi metal coils and or embodiments of magnet structures configured to generate compressed magnet fields may be used in various types of generators motors used in various applications acoustic systems and or control systems. Example generators include generators may be configured to convert energy received in a parasitic manner or energy specifically generated to be converted into electrical energy. Typical sources of energy include kinetic sources thermal sources acoustic sources and radio frequency sources. For example some embodiments may employ a magnetic structure configured to generate a compressed magnetic field together with dissimilar metals in order to take advantage of the Seebeck effect.

A number of such example applications are discussed below by way of illustrative example embodiments of such devices and applications. Although some embodiments may employ a dual conductor or bi metal coil and a magnet structure configured to generate a compressed magnetic field other embodiments may employ a dual conductor or bi metal coil and a conventional magnetic structure or no magnetic structure. Other embodiments may employ a magnetic structure configured to generate a compressed magnetic field and a conventional coil or no coil. Some embodiments may employ a conventional coil and a conventional magnetic structure in combination with other aspects of the present disclosure.

Linear generators and motors are known in the art. A linear generator typically has a stator and an armature that can be linearly driven relative to the stator to generate electrical energy. Linear generators are disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 759 755 to Sagov and in U.S. Pat. No. 6 798 090 to Cheung et al. both of which are incorporated herein by reference. A linear motor typically has a stator and an armature that can be linearly driven relative to the stator in response to the application of electrical energy typically in the form of electrical signals.

Conversion of linear motion to electrical power is a challenging problem. Recent work by the inventors in evaluating classical linear displacement generators using planar inductors indicates poor conversion efficiencies. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 220 719 issued to Vetorino et al. The basic problem is that the power output is proportional to the square of the derivative of the magnetic field and the magnitude of this derivative remains small in conventional devices. Similar issues arise in the conversion of electrical power into linear motion.

In a linear generator the power output generated by relative movement of a coil with respect to a magnetic structure is proportional to the square of the derivative of the magnetic field. The voltage is determined by the number of turns in the winding of the coil and the strength of the magnetic field. The shape relative position and strength of the permanent magnets in a magnetic structure can magnify the value of that derivative by generating a compressed magnetic field. By using a compressed magnetic field significant increases in efficiency can be obtained from this class of generators even for relatively small rates of mechanical displacement. The concepts pertinent to generating a compressed magnetic field are addressed through illustrative examples see the description of above and below .

The at rest position of the coil is closer to the end of the first magnet than the end of the second magnet . In the illustrated embodiment the magnets and are permanents magnets. Other embodiments may employ electro magnets. Note that the static magnetic flux through the coil is fairly high as indicated by the density of the equipotential lines passing through the coil in . The flux through the surface area of the face of the magnet is very large. The flux through a plane approximately in the center between magnets and is small.

There is a very high negative field gradient between the geometric position of the coil in and the position occupied by the coil in . Thus even slow physical movement of the coil or conversely the magnets will generate large derivatives. The coil moving back and forth about the center gives a huge change in flux. This will be true even with the small rates of physical displacement spatial derivatives of magnet position. Because output is proportional to the square of this derivative significant increases in power production will result.

If the coil is moved from proximate face of magnet to face of magnet in time 2 t the flux will change from to .

This is an approximate value because for a linear velocity the derivative will vary in value during the period t since the field is non linear.

In the embodiment shown in the coil is wound around a core having a length and an axis along the length coinciding with the center line in . In the embodiment shown in the axis is normal to the direction defined between the end of the first magnet and the end of the second magnet . In the embodiment of the end surface of the first magnet has a width W and the core has a length along axis that is at least as long as the width W of the end surface of the first magnet . In the illustrated embodiment the end surface of the second magnet has a width corresponding to the width of the end surface . Other embodiments are possible.

In the illustrated embodiment the coil is supported to be driven back and forth between the first magnet and the second magnet along a path between surfaces and that is generally normal to the axis .

In an alternative embodiment shown in the end of a first magnet is a south pole and the end of a second magnet is also a south pole and the ends and at least generally face each other . A coil is shown between the two magnets in but other coil arrangements are possible in a generator as will be described herein.

Holding the magnets separate and closer together than the ambient distance that the repelling force from the magnets would normally permit creates a high gradient or compressed magnetic field. This generally results in an increase of power output from the generator. For many embodiments holding the magnets closer together up to a limit will result in an increased power output. For example in alternative embodiments the distance between face and face could be equivalent to two times the distance a shown in .

The generator further includes an end which can be a threaded end cap for example closing an open end of the housing . The generator further includes a spring supported by the end configured to be selectively compressed by the magnet assembly and to move the magnet assembly away from the end . The generator further includes an end which could be a threaded end cap or merely a closed end and a spring configured to be selectively compressed by the magnet assembly and to move the magnet assembly away from the end . In some embodiments the springs may be configured to remain in a compressed state.

The generator further includes at least one coil supported by the housing. While other coil positions are possible in the illustrated embodiment the housing has an outer surface which is cylindrical in the illustrated embodiment and the coil is wrapped around the outer surface of the housing . The coil is positioned radially outwardly of the housing and the magnet assembly inside the housing . The coil can be retrained against longitudinal movement relative to the housing by glue grooves notches or protrusions in the housing or by any other desired method or can be molded into the housing supported on the interior of the housing etc. The coil is positioned to be acted on by the compressed magnetic fields generated by the magnetic structure .

In some embodiments the generator as an assembly is merely supported in a location that would be exposed to motion. In other embodiments a mechanical linkage is provided to couple the generator as an assembly to motion. For example the bottom could be coupled to a source of motion or movement. In some embodiments period maintenance could be facilitated. For example the top could be removable for cleaning or maintenance or replacement of magnets if desired. Some embodiments may be maintenance free. For example embodiments of a generator employed in a battery See may be designed to last for the life of the battery without periodic maintenance. For example the generator may be evacuated and hermetically sealed in some embodiments.

In some embodiments an accelerometer is provided in the desired application and the frequency constant of the motion is determined. The spring constants of the springs and mass of the magnets are then customized so that the magnet assembly resonates in the housing when there is energy available.

The generator further includes a housing in which the magnet structure is supported for linear motion. In the illustrated embodiment the case has an outer cylindrical surface and the housing has a cylindrical inner surface which has a diameter slightly larger than the diameter of the outer cylindrical surface of the case . The generator further includes an end which can be a threaded end cap for example closing an open end of the housing . The generator further includes a spring supported by the end . The spring is configured to be selectively compressed by the magnet assembly and to move the magnet assembly away from the end . The generator further includes an end which could be a threaded end cap or merely a closed end and a spring is arranged to be selectively compressed by the magnet assembly . The spring is arranged to move the magnet assembly away from the end .

The generator further includes a first coil supported relative to the magnets such that the first coil is selectively acted on by fields from at least one pair of opposed ends of magnets but possibly by fields from additional pairs of opposed ends of magnets depending on movement of the magnet assembly . The generator further includes a second coil supported relative to the magnets such that the second coil is selectively acted on by fields from at least one pair of opposed ends of magnets but possibly by fields from additional pairs of opposed ends of magnets depending on movement of the magnet assembly . In the illustrated embodiment the generator further includes a third coil supported relative to the magnets such that the third coil is selectively acted on by fields from at least one pair of opposed ends of magnets but possibly by fields from additional pairs of opposed ends of magnets depending on movement of the magnet assembly . Any number of coils can be employed. Any number of pairs of opposed ends of magnets can be employed to act on one or more coils.

The also comprises a stator comprising a magnet support and a plurality of permanent magnets . A first magnet of the plurality of magnets is coupled to a central portion of the magnet support . The first magnet is oriented such that its poles face opposite sides of an inner circumference of the rotor . The second magnet in the plurality of magnets is coupled to a first outer portion of the magnet support . The second magnet is oriented such that a pole of the second magnet faces the like pole of the first magnet . As illustrated the like poles are the south poles of the respective first and second permanent magnets . The third magnet in the plurality of magnets is coupled to a second outer portion of the magnet support . The third magnet is oriented such that a pole of the third magnet faces the like pole of the first magnet . As illustrated the like poles are the north poles of the respective first and third permanent magnets . The magnets are positioned such that a plurality of compressed magnetic fields are generated. In the illustrated embodiment the rotor is coupled to a mechanical transmission system . In some embodiments the magnet support may be part of the rotor and the bi metal coils may be part of the stator.

As illustrated the system comprises a coupling for coupling the coils to a power grid . Details of the electrical connection between the coils and the coupling are omitted for clarity. A bus system coupled to the electrical conductive windings for example may be employed as the electrical connection between the coils and the coupling . The coupling may comprise control and or conditioning modules not shown .

In some embodiments the system may be configured to operate as a generator. In such embodiments force applied to the rotor by the mechanical transmission system may cause the rotor to rotate with respect to the stator . As the rotor rotates with respect to the stator along an axis illustrated by the dashed line B B a three phase alternating current may be generated by the system .

In some embodiments the system may be configured to operate as a motor. In such embodiments an electrical signal applied to the coils may cause the rotor to rotate with respect to the stator . As the rotor rotates with respect to the stator along an axis illustrated by the dashed line B B a force is applied to the mechanical transmission system by the rotor . In some embodiments the system may be configured to selectively operate as a motor or as a generator. In some embodiments the system may be advantageously configured to operate at a desired voltage level in a desired voltage range and or at a desired frequency. For example the system may be configured to produce 110 120 volts AC at 50 60 Hz 220 240 volts AC at 50 60 Hz 10 kV AC at 50 60 Hz or 100 kV at 50 60 Hz. In some embodiments the system may be figured to produce alternating and or direct current.

In some embodiments the system may be configured to operate as a generator. In such embodiments mechanical force applied to the suspension system by the mechanical transmission system may cause the magnetic structure to move linearly with respect to the bi metal coil which may cause the device to generate an electric current. In some embodiments the system may be configured to operate as a motor. In such embodiments an electrical signal applied to the bi metal coil may cause the magnetic structure to move linearly with respect to the bi metal coil which may cause the suspension system to apply a mechanical force to the mechanical transmission system . In some embodiments the system may be configured to selectively operate as a motor or as a generator.

In some embodiments the system may be configured to operate as a generator. In such embodiments mechanical force applied to the suspension system by the mechanical transmission system may cause the magnetic structure to move linearly with respect to the bi metal coil which may cause the system to generate an electric current. In some embodiments the system may be configured to generate an alternating current and or a direct current. In some embodiments the device system may be configured to operate as a motor. In such embodiments an electrical signal applied to the bi metal coil may cause the magnetic structure to move linearly with respect to the bi metal coil which may cause the suspension system to apply a mechanical force to the mechanical transmission system . In some embodiments the system may be configured to selectively operate as a motor or as a generator.

Battery technology is a one example application in which embodiments of a bi metal coil and or a magnetic structure configured to generate a compressed magnetic field may be advantageously employed as will be illustrated with a limited number of examples.

The case may comprise an outer case shielding which may be a magnetic and or electrical shield. The case shielding may comprise for example a layer of tin foil a layer of a magnetic shielding material such as for example nickel nickel iron alloys nickel tin alloys nickel silver alloys nickel iron copper molybdenum alloys which may also take the form of a foil. Such foil layers may for example have a thickness in the range of 0.002 0.004 inches. Magnetic shielding materials are commercially available under several trademarks including MuMetal Hipernom HyMu 80 and Permalloy .

In some embodiments the case and contact terminals may take the external configuration of those of a conventional battery such as for example a AA cell a AAA cell a C cell a D cell a 9 volt battery a watch battery a pacemaker battery a cell phone battery a computer battery and other standard and non standard battery configurations. Embodiments of the battery may be configured to provide desired voltage levels including for example 1.5 volts 3.7 7.1 9 volts and other standard and non standard voltages. Embodiments may be configured to provide direct and or alternating current.

The generator converts kinetic energy into electrical energy. As illustrated the generator is a linear generator comprising a bi metal coil a magnetic structure and a suspension system . As illustrated the bi metal coil comprises an electrical conductive winding and a magnetic conductive winding . As illustrated the suspension system comprises a magnetic structure carrier guide a first spring coupled at one end to the magnetic structure a first repelling magnet coupled to the other end of the first spring a second spring coupled at one end to the magnetic structure and a second repelling magnet coupled to the other end of the second spring . The suspension system facilitates movement of the magnetic structure in response to movement of the battery along an axis A A with respect to the coil . The movement of the magnetic structure relative to the coil generates a current in the coil . The suspension system may comprise for example stainless steel springs such as or stainless steel springs. The magnetic structure may comprise for example one or more rare earth magnets such as neodymium iron boron permanent magnets one or more ceramic magnets one or more plastic magnets or one or more other magnets. The repelling magnets may comprise for example one or more rare earth magnets one or more ceramic magnets one or more plastic magnets or one or more other magnets. As illustrated the carrier guide comprises a winding form upon which one or more windings of the coil are wound. In some embodiments a separate winding form may be employed. The suspension system is configured to permit the magnetic structure to pass completely out of a region defined by a top and a bottom of the coil . The springs are typically configured in a loaded condition.

The first energy storage device is configured to store electrical energy generated by the generator . In one embodiment the first energy storage device is capable of storing electrical energy generated by the generator with little or no conditioning. In other embodiments electrical energy may be conditioned before it is stored in the first energy storage device as discussed by way of example below. The first energy storage device may comprise for example one or more ultracapacitors. For ease of illustration the first energy storage device is illustrated as a functional block.

The control module controls the transfer of energy within the battery . The control module typically comprises a rectifier which as illustrated is a full bridge rectifier . For example the control module may be configured to control the transfer of energy between various components of the battery such as the generator the first energy storage device the second energy storage device and the contact terminals . In one embodiment the control module may also control the transfer of energy from the generator to the first energy storage device . In one embodiment the control module controls the transfer of energy stored in the first energy storage device to the second energy storage device . For example the control module may limit the current flow from the first energy storage device to the second energy storage device . In another example the control module may stop the transfer of energy from the first energy storage device to the second energy storage device to avoid overcharging the second energy storage device . In one embodiment the control module may be configured to stop the transfer of energy to the first energy storage device to avoid overcharging the first energy storage device . In one embodiment the control module may be configured to control the transfer of energy from the first energy storage device to the contact terminals . In one embodiment the control module may be configured to control the transfer of energy from the generator to the contact terminals . In one embodiment the control module also may be configured to detect control permit accept regulate and or to facilitate charging of the first energy storage device and or the second energy storage device from an external source of electrical energy such as a conventional battery charger not shown or ambient sources of energy. In one embodiment the control module is configured to condition energy during a transfer. The operation of the control module in two exemplary embodiments is discussed in more detail below in the description of .

The control module may be implemented in a variety of ways including as a combined control system or as separate subsystems. The control module may be implemented as discrete circuitry one or more microprocessors digital signal processors DSP application specific integrated circuits ASIC or the like or as a series of instructions stored in a memory and executed by a controller or various combinations of the above. In some embodiments the first energy storage device may be integrated into the control module .

The second energy storage device is configured to store electrical energy transferred from the first energy storage device under the control of the control module . The second energy storage device may comprise for example one or more conventional batteries such as a lead acid battery a nickel cadmium battery a nickel metal hydride battery a lithium polymer battery or lithium ion battery a sodium sulfur battery or any suitable rechargeable energy storage device.

The contact terminals provide access for transferring electrical energy to and or from the battery . The contact terminals may be made of any electrically conductive material such as for example metallic materials such as copper copper coated with silver or tin aluminum gold etc. The contact terminals are coupled to the control module . In some embodiments the contact terminals may be coupled to the second energy storage device instead of being directly coupled to the control module . As illustrated the contact terminals have a physical configuration similar to the contact terminals of a conventional C cell battery. As discussed above other configurations may be employed. The contact terminals are configured to permit the battery to be easily installed into and removed from external devices such as for example a radio a cell phone or a positioning system. The contact terminals may employ magnetic shielding.

Energy may be stored in the battery as a result of movement of the battery . For example if the magnetic structure is neutral with respect to the coil and the battery is subject to a downward movement the magnetic structure may move up with respect to the coil in response to the downward movement of the battery . The relative upward movement of the magnetic structure will result in the generation of a current in the coil when it passes above the top of the coil . As the magnetic structure approaches the first repulsive magnet the first spring and the first repulsing magnet will apply downward forces to the magnetic structure . In response to the downward forces the magnetic structure may begin to move downward with respect to the coil . It may pass through neutral a location approximately midway between and and pass through the coil again generating additional electrical current when it passes below the bottom of the coil . When the magnetic structure approaches the second repulsing magnet the second spring and the second repulsing magnet will apply upward forces to the magnetic structure . If the upward forces are sufficiently strong the magnetic structure will again pass through the coil again and generate additional electrical current. The movement may continue in an oscillatory back and forth fashion until there is insufficient energy in the suspension system to continuing moving the magnetic structure with respect to the coil .

In some embodiments the suspension system may be tuned to increase the electrical energy generated from anticipated sources of energy. For example if the battery will frequently be in an environment where energy is supplied by an individual walking or running at a known speed or rate the suspension system may be tuned to that speed or rate. Thus a battery may be configured to substantially maximize the conversion of energy expected to be generated by a jogger into electrical energy. In another example if the battery will frequently be subject to stop and go traffic in an automobile or irregular motion from a flight or ground vehicle the suspension system may be tuned to maximize the conversion of the energy of that environment into electrical energy. In another example if the battery will be employed in an environment frequently subjected to fluid waves such as water or sea waves or wind the suspension system may be tuned to maximize the conversion of the energy of that environment into electrical energy. In another example if the battery will be frequently subjected to vibrations for example in a moving vehicle the suspension system may be tuned to maximize the conversion of the energy received from the vibrations into electrical energy. The suspension system may be tuned for example by modifying the strength of any repelling magnets adjusting the tension in any repelling devices such as springs employing multiple mechanical repelling devices see modifying the length of the path of travel of the magnetic structure or combinations of modifications. Other suspension systems may be employed such as for example suspension systems which orient the generator in different directions within the battery. The suspension system may be gimbaled and or may employ gyroscopic principles to orient the generator to facilitate optimal conversion of energy into electrical energy. Multiple generators within a battery with different orientations may be employed and multiple battery configurations may be employed.

In some embodiments other generator configurations may be employed such as for example radial rotational Seebeck acoustic thermal or radio frequency generators. In some embodiments other suspension systems may be employed such as suspension systems in which the generator may move with respect to the case so as to take maximum advantage of the available forms of energy. For example the generator may be configured to rotate in the battery case so as to align itself with an axis of movement. In another example the suspension system may be configured to allow the coil to move with respect to the magnetic structure .

The generator converts received energy into electrical energy. As illustrated the generator is a linear generator comprising a coil a magnetic structure and a suspension system . The generator may operate for example as described above with respect to the generator illustrated in .

The first energy storage device is configured to store electrical energy generated by the generator . In one embodiment the first energy storage device is capable of storing electrical energy generated by the generator with little or no conditioning. The first energy storage device may comprise for example one or more ultracapacitors.

The control module controls the transfer of energy between the various components of the battery such as the generator the first energy storage device the second energy storage device the third energy storage device and the terminals . For example the control module may control the transfer of stored in the first energy storage device to the second energy storage device and to the third energy storage device . In one embodiment the control module may also control the transfer of energy from the generator to the first energy storage device . For example the control module may limit the current flow from the first energy storage device to the second energy storage device and to the third energy storage device . In another example the control module may stop the transfer of energy from the first energy storage device to the second energy storage device and to the third energy storage device to avoid overcharging the second and third energy storage devices . In one embodiment the control module may be configured to detect control permit and or to facilitate charging of the first second and or third energy storage devices from an external source of electrical energy not shown coupled to the terminals .

The control module may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example the control module may be implemented as described above in the description of the control module of .

The second and third energy storage devices are configured to store electrical energy transferred from the first energy storage device under the control of the control module . The second and third energy storage devices may comprise for example conventional rechargeable batteries such as nickel cadmium batteries nickel metal hydride batteries lithium polymer batteries or lithium ion batteries other energy storage devices or combinations of energy storage devices. The second and third energy storage devices may be coupled to the control module for example separately in series or in parallel. As illustrated the second and third energy storage devices are washer shaped with the suspension system extending into hollow centers of the second and third energy storage devices . As illustrated the second and third energy storage device are connected in series between the first and second contact terminals and in series to the control module . Some embodiments may employ dissimilar metals to take advantage of the Seebeck effect.

The contact terminals provide access for transferring electrical energy to and from the battery . The contact terminals may be made of any electrically conductive material such as for example metallic materials such as copper copper coated with silver or tin aluminum gold etc. The contact terminals are coupled to the second and third energy storage devices . The second and third energy storage devices may be coupled to the contact terminals in parallel or in series. In some embodiments the contact terminals may be coupled to the control module instead of being directly coupled to the second and third energy storage devices . As illustrated the contact terminals have the physical configuration of the contact terminals of a conventional C cell battery. As discussed above other configurations may be employed. The contact terminals are typically configured to permit the battery to be easily installed into and removed from external devices such as for example a radio a cell phone or a positioning system. The contact terminals may employ magnetic shielding.

Energy may be stored in the battery as a result of movement of the battery . For example energy may be converted into stored energy in a manner similar to the example discussed above with respect to .

As discussed above in some embodiments the suspension system may be tuned to maximize the electrical energy generated from anticipated sources of kinetic energy.

In some embodiments other generator configurations may be employed such as for example rotational generators. In some embodiments other suspension systems may be employed such as for example suspension systems in which the generator may move with respect to the case so as to take maximum advantage of available kinetic energy. For example the generator may be configured to spin in the battery case so as to align itself with an axis of movement. In another example the suspension system may be configured to allow coil to move with respect to the magnetic structure .

The coil comprises a cylindrical winding form and one or more windings . As illustrated the winding form is integrated with a carrier guide of the suspension system . As illustrated the coil comprises a single winding . The winding may comprise any electrically conductive and substantially non magnetic conductive material such as for example copper aluminum gold and silver and alloys. The winding is typically covered with an insulating material . In some embodiments additional windings comprising magnetic conductive and or non magnetic conductive material may be employed See e.g. . The winding may be for example solid material or may be comprised of strands of wire. Sheets of material may be employed in some embodiments. For example a sheet comprising a copper layer and a Mylar layer may be wound around the winding form .

The magnetic structure comprises a plurality of permanent magnets contained within a cylindrical magnet housing . While the illustrated embodiment employs three permanent magnets other embodiments of the generator may employ different numbers of permanent magnets such as two permanent magnets four permanent magnets or hundreds of permanent magnets. The permanent magnets are disk shaped as illustrated but other shapes may be employed. For example rectangular e.g. square spherical or elliptical shaped magnets may be employed. Similarly the faces of the magnets need not be flat. For example convex concave radial cone or diamond shaped faces may be employed. Various combinations of shapes and faces may be employed. In some embodiments electromagnets may be employed. The inside of the magnet housing and outsides of the permanent magnets are threaded so that the permanent magnets can be fixed in position with respect to each other within the magnet housing . Other positioning mechanisms may be employed such as tabs spacers glues or combinations of positioning mechanisms.

The magnets are positioned and held apart from each other and are arranged such that same polarity poles in adjacent permanent magnets face each other. For example the N pole of the first permanent magnet faces the N pole of the second permanent magnet and the S pole of the second permanent magnet faces the S pole of the third permanent magnet . In addition the magnets are held close enough together to form a compressed magnetic field see the discussions of . In some embodiments the spaces between the permanent magnets are substantially filled with a material which may comprise a gas such as air. In some embodiments the material may comprise other substantially non magnet and substantially non conductive substances such as a fluoropolymer resin or plastic. In some embodiments the magnetic structure may be evacuated and hermetically sealed.

As noted above the shape position and strength of the permanent magnets in a magnetic structure such as the magnetic structure can increase the efficiency of the generator by generating a compressed magnetic field. The ratio of the length from the top of the first permanent magnet to the bottom of the third permanent magnet to the length of of the inner diameter of the winding form also impacts the electrical current produced in response to movement of the magnetic structure with respect to the coil . A gauss meter not shown may be employed to determine the optimum strength and positioning of the permanent magnets as well as the number of permanent magnets and the length .

Other design considerations may be taken into consideration as well such as weight and reducing external impacts of electromagnetic fields and impacts from external electromagnetic fields. In another example of an additional design consideration the overall length of the winding form and the range of movement of the magnetic structure in the suspension system may impact the stability of the generator . In one experimental embodiment the first magnet and the third magnet had a strength of 450 gauss and the second magnet had a strength of 900 gauss and the permanent magnets were separated by 2 mm. Factors in determining the desired spacing include the magnetic B field strength. The repelling magnets each had a strength of 600 gauss. In another experimental embodiment the first magnet second magnet and third magnet had a strength of 12 600 gauss and the permanent magnets were separated by 4 5 mm. The repelling magnets each had a strength of 9906 gauss. This resulted in a high gradient field with a strength of approximately 16 800 gauss.

The inside of the carrier guide and the outside of the magnet housing are made of or coated with dissimilar materials to reduce potential for binding between the winding form and the magnet housing . For example the carrier guide may be coated with a non stick coating while the magnet housing may be made of an ABS plastic. Example dissimilar materials are available under the respective trademarks Teflon and Lexan . The magnetic housing also comprises a first threaded end cap and a second threaded end cap .

The suspension system comprises a first repelling permanent magnet and a second repelling permanent magnet that are fixed with respect to the coil in the axis of movement of the magnetic structure . The first repelling magnet is positioned such that a like pole of the first repelling magnet faces the like pole of the nearest permanent magnet in the magnetic structure . As illustrated the S pole of the first repelling magnet faces the S pole of the first permanent magnet of the magnetic structure . Similarly the second repelling magnet is positioned such that a like pole of the second repelling magnet faces the like pole of the nearest permanent magnet in the magnetic structure . As illustrated the N pole of the second repelling magnet faces the N pole of the third permanent magnet of the magnetic structure . This arrangement increases the efficiency of the generator in converting kinetic energy into electrical energy and reduces the likelihood that the magnetic structure will stall in the suspension system .

The suspension system also comprises a first spring a second spring a third spring and a fourth spring . The first spring is coupled to the first repelling magnet and to the first cap of the magnetic structure . The first spring is typically in a loaded condition. The second spring is coupled to the second repelling magnet and to the second end cap of the magnetic structure . The second spring is typically in a loaded condition. The first and second springs help to hold the magnetic structure centered in the desired movement path along the axis and impart forces to the magnetic structure as they are compressed and stretched by movement of the magnetic structure along the axis of movement . The third spring is coupled to the first repelling magnet and imparts a repelling force on the magnetic structure in response to compression forces applied by the magnetic structure as it nears the first repelling magnet . The fourth spring is coupled to the second repelling magnet and imparts a repelling force on the magnetic structure in response to compression forces applied by the magnetic structure as it nears the second repelling magnet . The springs may be tuned to increase the efficiency of the generator in particular applications and likely environments as discussed in more detail above in the description of . The tuning may be done experimentally. Some embodiments may employ no springs fewer springs or more springs. For example in some embodiments springs and may be omitted.

The method begins at and proceeds to . At the battery receives energy as a result of movement of the battery . The method proceeds to . At the battery converts the energy into movement of a magnetic structure with respect to a coil inside the battery . The back and forth movement of the magnetic structure through the coil generates an alternating current signal. The magnetic structure may be configured to generate a compressed magnetic field see e.g. and . The coil may comprise electrical conductive and magnetic conductive windings see e.g. . The method proceeds from to . At the battery rectifies the alternating current signal produced by the movement of the magnetic structure with respect to the coil. The method proceeds to . At the battery stores electrical energy from the rectified alternating current signal in a first energy storage device within the battery . The method proceeds from to . At the battery controls the transfer of energy stored in the first energy storage device to a second energy storage device within the battery . The method proceeds from to where the method stops.

Embodiments of a method to charge a portable energy storage device may perform other acts not shown in may not all perform all of the acts shown in may combine acts shown in or may perform the acts of in a different order. For example the embodiment of a method illustrated in may be modified to check whether conditions are appropriate for charging second energy storage device before transferring energy from the first energy storage device to the second energy storage device.

The method begins at and proceeds to . At the battery determines whether a load is being presented to the battery . This may be done for example by using discrete circuitry. When it is determined at that a load is being presented to the battery the method proceeds from to . When it is determined at that a load is not being presented to the battery the method proceeds from to .

At the battery determines whether to condition energy from the generator and provide the conditioned energy to the load. This determination may be made for example by determining whether the energy being generated by the generator is sufficient to drive the load. Other factors may be considered as well in the determination such as for example load histories charging and discharging cycles of the energy storage devices in the battery . Discrete circuitry and or look up tables may be employed to determine to supply conditioned energy from the generator to the load. When it is determined at to condition energy from the generator and provide the conditioned energy to the load the method proceeds from to . When it is determined at to not provide conditioned energy from the generator to the load the method proceeds from to . At the battery transfers conditioned energy from the generator to the load. The method proceeds from to .

At the battery determines whether to transfer energy from the first energy storage device to the load. This determination may be made for example by determining whether the energy stored in the first energy storage device is sufficient to drive the load. Other factors may be considered as well in the determination such as for example load histories and charging and discharging cycles of the energy storage devices in the battery . Discrete circuitry and or look up tables may be employed to determine whether to supply energy stored in the first energy storage device to the load. When it is determined at to supply energy stored in the first energy storage device to the load the method proceeds from to . When it is determined at to not transfer energy stored in the first energy storage device to the load the method proceeds from to . At the battery transfers energy stored in the first energy storage device to the load. The method proceeds from to .

At the battery determines whether to transfer energy from the second energy storage device to the load. This determination may be made for example by determining whether the energy stored in the second energy storage device is sufficient to drive the load. Other factors may be considered as well in the determination such as for example load histories and charging and discharging cycles of the energy storage devices in the battery . Discrete circuitry and or look up tables may be employed to determine whether to supply energy stored in the second energy storage device to the load. When it is determined at to supply energy stored in the second energy storage device to the load the method proceeds from to . When it is determined at to not transfer energy stored in the second energy storage device to the load the method proceeds from to . At the battery transfers energy stored in the second energy storage device to the load. The method proceeds from to .

At error processing and or safety processing for load conditions is performed. For example the battery may disable the transfer of energy from the battery until the battery has been recharged either through energy from the generator or through external sources of energy . The method proceeds from to .

At the battery determines whether a charge signal is being presented to the battery . This may be done by for example using discrete circuitry. When it is determined at that a charge signal is being presented to the battery the method proceeds from to . When it is determined at that a charge signal is not being presented to the battery the method proceeds from to .

At the battery determines whether to charge the first energy storage device. This determination may be made based upon factors such as for example the characteristics of the charge signal the energy stored in the energy storage devices and charging and discharging cycles of the energy storage devices in the battery . Discrete circuitry and or look up tables may be employed to determine whether to charge the first energy storage device using the energy in the charge signal. When it is determined at to charge the first energy storage device the method proceeds from to . When it is determined at not to charge the first energy storage device the method proceeds from to . At the battery uses energy from the received charge signal to charge the first energy storage device. The method proceeds from to .

At the battery determines whether to charge the second energy storage device. This determination may be made based upon factors such as for example the characteristics of the charge signal the energy stored in the energy storage devices and charging and discharging cycles of the energy storage devices in the battery . Discrete circuitry and or look up tables may be employed to determine whether to charge the second energy storage device using the energy in the charge signal. When it is determined at to charge the second energy storage device the method proceeds from to . When it is determined at not to charge the second energy storage device the method proceeds from to . At the battery uses energy from the received charge signal to charge the second energy storage device. The method proceeds from to .

At load error processing is performed. For example the battery may temporarily disable charging of the energy storage devices. The method proceeds from to .

Embodiments of a method of operating a portable energy storage device may perform other acts not shown in may not all perform all of the acts shown in may combine acts shown in or may perform the acts of in a different order. For example the embodiment of a method illustrated in may be modified to provide energy to a load from more than one energy storage device. In another example the embodiment of a method illustrated in may be modified to simultaneously charge an energy storage device and provide energy to a load.

In another example application devices employing bi metal coils magnetic structures configured to generate compressed magnetic fields and or other aspects of the present disclosure may be advantageously employed to convert fluid waves such as water or sea water waves to electrical energy. This is a potential environmentally friendly renewable source of energy. For example an apparatus such as the one disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 864 592 to Kelly for converting the motion of sea wave energy to electrical energy including one or more float driven linear generators in which the inertial mass of a float and any linkage to the linear generator is minimized may be modified in accordance with the present disclosure. The moving part of the generator is sized that its gravitational weight acting upon the float together with that of the float itself and any intermediate linkage is substantially equal to half the total buoyancy of the float. In calm conditions the float would be half in half out of the water. In the presence of waves during the rise of a wave an upwards thrust is imparted to the generator equal to substantially half the weight of the water displaced by the float. On the fall of the wave a downwards thrust due to gravity is imparted to the generator equal to the combined weight of the assembly. Thus the linear generators experience substantially consistent upwards and downwards thrust during the passing of a wave and consistent generation of power during both of these phases is achieved. The device of Kelly could be advantageously modified to incorporate bi metal coils and or magnetic structures configured to generate compressed magnetic fields to increase its efficiency.

Another patent that discloses converting sea waves to electrical energy is U.S. Pat. No. 6 791 205 to Woodbridge which is incorporated herein by reference. This patent discloses a reciprocating generator rigidly attached to the underside of an ocean buoy that creates electric power from ocean swells. A generator coil maintains a stable position beneath the ocean surface while the magnetic field housing reciprocates with the vertical motion of the buoy in response to interaction with swell and waves on the surface of the ocean. Damping plates attached to the generator coil inhibit the motion of the generator coil thus keeping it in a stable position relative to the motion of the magnetic housing. The magnetic housing focuses the magnetic field through the generator coil and the relative motion between the magnetic housing and generator coil creates an electromotive force in the coil. In another example the apparatus of Woodbridge could be advantageously modified in accordance with the present disclosure to increase its efficiency.

In some embodiments as shown in a generator is employed in a cargo container . Security of cargo containers is a growing concern. If power were available gamma detection of explosives infrared detection of human cargo or other surveillance could be performed. By supporting a generator or in or on a cargo container energy can be generated by the linear generator from the motion of a ship due to the action of waves and this energy can be used to power a variety of surveillance or detection systems. The generator or could be arranged to capture side to side rocking motion or up and down motion for example.

In another example shows just one example of a water wave to electrical energy power facility comprising a plurality of power generators of the type described above. The facility includes paddles or linkages coupled to the generators . In one embodiment the generators are like the linear generators described above and the paddles are coupled to the bottom of a generator or the bottom of a generator . The generators are arranged to be moved by water waves and to cause either the coils or magnets of the generators to move in response to the waves. In some embodiments the generators are supported to float on water without the use of linkages.

The facility further includes one or more rectification circuits or circuitry coupled to the windings or coils of the power generators . The rectification circuits convert AC currents generated in the windings or coils of the power generators to DC currents. The windings or coils of the power generators may comprise bi metal coils.

In the embodiment of the facility further includes a power storage device coupled to the rectification circuits for accumulating and storing power generated by the windings or coils. The power storage device can be or include one or more batteries capacitors combination of batteries and capacitors or other types of power storage devices. The power storage device includes a charging regulator to provide proper current and voltage to the battery capacitor or other energy storage device.

In the embodiment of the facility further includes an inverter coupled to the power storage device and configured to supply alternating current to an electricity distribution system or grid. In the illustrated embodiment the inverter is coupled to the grid via a transformer . Other embodiments including one or more power generators for converting water waves to electrical power either AC or DC are possible.

Other applications are possible such as biological motion systems parasitic power harvesting self powered devices such as self powered security and intelligence gathering devices. For example in one embodiment a power generator as described herein is included in a shoe to generate power from walking. That power can be used to supply any variety of electronic devices.

A shoe mounted device includes for example a power generator as described above mounted in or on a shoe heel such that each time the heel hits the ground the impact causes movement of the coil relative to the magnets. The shoe mounted device also includes a rectification circuit e.g. a full wave rectifier coupled to the coil of the power generator and a power storage device such as a capacitor or battery coupled to the output of the rectification circuit. A voltage regulator can be included to provide proper current and voltage to the storage device.

For example shows just one example of a biological motion device comprising a power generator of the type described above in connection with . The power generator is mounted in some embodiments in the heel of a shoe or elsewhere on a person such that the action of walking moves the magnets relative to the coil of a power generator .

The device further includes a rectification circuit or rectification circuitry coupled to the windings or coils of the power generator . The rectification circuitry converts AC currents generated in the windings or coils of the power generators to DC currents.

In the embodiment of the device further includes a power storage device coupled to the rectification circuitry for accumulating and storing power generated by the windings or coils. The power storage device can be or include one or more batteries capacitors combination of batteries and capacitors or other types of power storage devices.

In the embodiment of the device further includes a voltage regulator coupled to the power storage device and configured to provide a stable output voltage to an electronic device borne by a person. Other embodiments are possible.

Although specific embodiments of and examples for the coil magnetic structure device generator motor battery control module energy storage devices and methods of generating and storing energy are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure as will be recognized by those skilled in the relevant art. The various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments.

These and other changes can be made to the invention in light of the above detailed description. In general in the following claims the terms used should not be construed to limit the invention to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification and the claims. Accordingly the invention is not limited by the disclosure but instead its scope is to be determined entirely by the following claims.

