---

title: Methods and systems for extensible markup language control of network equipment
abstract: The present invention utilizes an XML-based protocol for controlling a plurality of settings to tie network equipment together, such as telecommunications, cable, enterprise, wireless, etc., across different transport network technologies, including optical, wireless, TDM, and packet. Network requests are carried in self-describing XML messages that are parsed by a general XML language parser. This changes the paradigm of XML used to control data records to XML controlling network equipment. This has many benefits including the ability to better function in the new IMS infrastructures being assembled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07962619&OS=07962619&RS=07962619
owner: Ciena Corporation
number: 07962619
owner_city: Linthicum
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060929
---
The present invention relates generally to methods and systems for controlling a network including but not limited to an optical network. More specifically the present invention relates to Extensible Markup Language XML based methods and systems for controlling the network including but not limited to the optical network. In particular an XML based protocol is used between network elements to set up resources and or services across the network.

Traditionally a network is controlled at each of the Open Systems Interconnection OSI layers. The OSI model is a logical structure for network operations standardized by the International Standards Organization ISO . The OSI model organizes the communications process into seven different categories and places these categories into a layered sequence based upon their relationships to other processes. Layers seven through four deal with end to end communications between a message source and a message destination while layers three through one deal with network access. The layers communicate with their peers in the network. For example at layer 0 optics can be populated with specific wavelengths. In some automated systems optics can be programmed with certain characteristics such as wavelengths filters and optical switching capabilities at the optical layer. Typically these are all controlled by an Element Management System EMS Network Management System NMS or Operations Support System OSS . For example at layer 1 the network is typically based on a Synchronous Optical Network Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SONET SDH standard offering virtual Time Division Multiplexing TDM and data channels within the bit streams. The channels are built switched or dismantled at nodes. Again this is typically controlled by the EMS. More recently layer specific resource control protocols such as Resource Reservation Protocol RSVP have been defined to control the network reference Generalized Multi Protocol Label Switching GMPLS . For example at layer 2 a common protocol is Ethernet. Ethernet networks can be provisioned as in Provider Backbone Transport PBT networks http www.ieee802.org 1 files public docs2005 ah bottorff pbt for iee v41 0905.pdf or http www.ietf.org internet drafts draft allan pw o pbt 00.txt . However Ethernet networks typically provision simply by using the broadcast mechanism that is inherent in Ethernet. Optimizations have been added to extend reach and efficiency such as bridges and multi link bonding which has added to the complexity of the protocols used without changing the basic principles. For example at layer 3 the Internet Protocol IP layer IP routing is used to interconnect nodes in a network. Typically these nodes all run routing protocols such as Routing Information Protocol RIP Open Shortest Path First OSPF protocol etc. Modern networks often apply key mechanisms such as Multi Protocol Label Switching MPLS at this layer in order to enhance the scalability of add features to or increase the stability of the networks. For example at layer 4 data transport reliability service ports and the like are addressed. For example at layer 5 the session layer SIP can be used to initiate sessions. A session is a communication of some form between two peer entities. A relevant example is the initiation of a voice call from a wireless WiFi enabled Personal Digital Assistant PDA . The WiFi enabled PDA generates the voice call to another user in a form such as INVITE name yourisp.com using SIP. The SIP agents track name and are aware of many items such as but not limited to the location of name e.g. name is now in city the presence availability of name e.g. name can only be contacted by family at this time and the media of name e.g. name has set up the network to forward voice calls to a home voicemail at this time .

Current efforts to define protocols for optical networking have focused on layer specific controls. Disadvantageously layer specific controls require accessing each layer to set up resources and or services across the network. For example for layer 0 protocol definition has focused on the specification of the wavelength to be used for a connection the level of optical impairments that are allowed in the connection and the source and destination within an optical network. Additionally for layer 1 protocol definition has focused on the specification of the timeslot to be used for a connection within a TDM signal the type of links to be used in the sense of any automated protection functionality associated with the links etc. This work has been defined in the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF standards such as Request for Comments RFC 3471 the GMPLS signaling functional description RFC 3473 the GMPLS signaling extensions to RSVP and RFC 3946 the GMPLS extensions for SONET SDH control.

What has not been fully explored however is the area of technology independent control that is required to offer services over a particular layer network. This is termed call control in the related standards especially Automatically Switched Optical Network ASON or International Telecommunications Union ITU T Recommendation G.8080 and is currently embodied in protocols only as a common identifier that links together signaling for multiple connections or as a connection independent control plane flow for purposes such as pre connection compatibility verification. The former is described in ITU T Recommendation G.7713.2 the specification for Distributed Call Connection Management Using GMPLS RSVP TE while the latter is described in IETF draft draft ietf ccamp gmpls rsvp te call 00.txt a work in progress.

Typically services in a network are set up via direct provisioning performed by an EMS NMS OSS i.e. a platform supporting multiple Wavelength Division Multiplexed WDM spans in order to provide Network Management NM services or a system responsible for managing at least part of the network and communicating with agents in order to help keep track of network resources statistics and performance. Alternatively services in the network are set up via automated nodal software that is capable of performing routing under EMS NMS OSS command. The present invention utilizes an XML based protocol between network elements for controlling a plurality of settings to tie network equipment together such as telecommunications cable enterprise wireless etc. across different transport network technologies including optical wireless TDM and packet. Network requests are carried in self describing XML messages that are parsed by a general XML language parser. This changes the paradigm of XML used to control data records to XML controlling network equipment. This has many benefits including the ability to better function in the new IMS infrastructures being assembled.

The XML based protocol although used between network elements supporting a specific technology or technologies such as optical TDM Ethernet IP etc. is used to carry information that is technology independent and reflects the end to end service required from the network i.e. the type of data flow being carried end to end as well as the call or session state end to end. Network elements supporting a specific technology can then determine from this information those requirements that are needed to support the end to end service within this technology e.g. for TDM the number of time slots of a particular signal type required to support the data flow.

In one exemplary embodiment of the present invention a network method utilizing Extensible Markup Language to establish a network service between network elements in a network includes generating a request at a network element for a network service in Extensible Markup Language wherein the request is one of manually and automatically configured and wherein the request is directed to another network element obtaining network resources responsive to the request wherein the network resources comprise network parameters required to obtain and provision the network service and configuring the network resources responsive to the request. Preferably the network includes a plurality of network elements operable to receive Extensible Markup Language requests. Optionally the plurality of network elements includes a plurality of optical network elements wherein the network route comprises wavelengths between first and second optical network elements in the network. Alternatively the network comprises one of a telecommunications network a cable network an enterprise network a wireless network and a combination thereof.

In another exemplary embodiment of the present invention a network utilizing Extensible Markup Language to establish network services between network elements in the network includes a plurality of network elements operable to receive Extensible Markup Language requests and an Extensible Markup Language server connected to one or more of the plurality of network elements wherein the Extensible Markup Language requests comprise requests for network resources to establish a network service between two network elements and wherein the network is operable to configure network resources responsive to the Extensible Markup Language requests. Optionally the network includes an optical dense wavelength division multiplexed network. Alternatively the network includes one or more of a telecommunications network a cable network an enterprise network a wireless network and a combination thereof.

In a further exemplary embodiment of the present invention a network utilizing Extensible Markup Language to control network resources includes an Extensible Markup Language application and one or more nodes wherein the one or more nodes are connected to the application wherein the application is operable to generate network requests for network resources in Extensible Markup Language and wherein the network is operable to control network resources responsive to the network requests. Optionally the network request is for bandwidth on the network and the network request is directed to the one or more nodes connected to the application. Alternatively the network request includes a plurality of parameters wherein the plurality of parameters comprise a plurality of Open Systems Interconnection layer parameters operable to control network resources.

In a still further exemplary embodiment of the present invention a network utilizing Extensible Markup Language to control a plurality of Open Systems Interconnection layer resources in order to eliminate dependencies on the network being homogeneous includes an Extensible Markup Language application wherein the application resides on a database and one or more nodes with multiple Open Systems Interconnection layer resources wherein the one or more nodes are connected to the database wherein the application is operable to generate network requests in Extensible Markup Language for network resources across a plurality of Open Systems Interconnection layers wherein the requests are operable to be received at any one of the plurality of Open Systems Interconnection layers for network resources at any one of the plurality of Open Systems Interconnection layers and wherein the network is operable to control and switch network resources across the plurality of Open Systems Interconnection layers responsive to the network requests. Optionally the application separates control and switching.

Typically services in a network are set up via direct provisioning performed by an EMS NMS OSS i.e. a platform supporting multiple WDM spans in order to provide NM services or a system responsible for managing at least part of the network and communicating with agents in order to help keep track of network resources statistics and performance. Alternatively services in the network are set up via automated nodal software such as RSVP TE that is capable of performing routing under EMS NMS OSS command. The present invention utilizes an XML based protocol for controlling a plurality of settings to tie network equipment together such as telecommunications cable enterprise wireless etc. across different transport network technologies including optical wireless TDM and packet. Network requests are carried in self describing XML messages that are parsed by a general XML language parser. This changes the paradigm of XML used to control data records to XML controlling network equipment. This has many benefits including the ability to better function in the new IMS infrastructures being assembled.

Service Oriented Architecture SOA expresses a perspective of software architecture that defines the use of services to support the requirements of software users. In an SOA environment resources on a network are made available as independent services that can be accessed without knowledge of their underlying platform implementation. SOA is usually based on Web services standards e.g. using SOAP or REST that have gained broad industry acceptance. These standards also referred to as Web service specifications also provide greater interoperability and some protection from lock in to proprietary vendor software. However one can implement SOA using any service based technology. The present invention offers the idea that SOA can utilize XML to control network resources in a network. In a SOA world the architecture is tied directly to the Web HTTP SOAP BEEP etc and the form of the services are derived directly from enterprise distributed computing models of design or similar approaches such as grid computing. It is more likely in SOA that the network being controlled is owned within a large enterprise and the SOA provider is either a branch of IT or a more traditional computing services contractor.

User Controlled Light Paths UCLP is a distributed network control application developed to support the sharing of network facilities amongst a community of users. This sharing is achieved by providing a software object model of the explicit set of available resources comprising the physical network segments and cross connect equipment with supported methods for provisioning and control of these resources. The users of the application interact with these UCLP objects to concatenate segments and cross connects and assemble path objects that model services in the network. This mode of directly and explicitly manipulating models of the physical equipment and facilities to create service desired topologies has limitations as it necessarily exposes details of the underlying network infrastructure. Understanding and correctly interacting with these details can be a burden to users simply seeking service. Revealing network design and operational state at this level of detail is commercially undesirable for many service providers. UCLP is built on a web services framework provided by the XML based Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP . The UCLP application interacts with the various existing configuration control interfaces typically TL1 or SNMP of the underlying physical network elements to establish services.

SDP is a format for describing streaming media initialization parameters and has been published by the IETF as RFC 2327. SDP describes multimedia sessions for the purposes of session announcement session invitation and other forms of multimedia session initiation. SDP is a container for messages that can describe what is requested. This can be a description of what resources are desired what capabilities a requestor has etc. The SDP syntax is intended to support the addition of key value codes to support extension of a functional application. Further there are opportunities to augment or replace SDP in XML in order to define preferred or mandatory resource request parameters with XML. With some modification to the coding UCLP can be directly encapsulated.

SIP is a protocol developed by the IETF MMUSIC Working Group. It is also a proposed standard for initiating modifying and terminating an interactive user session. This interactive user session typically involves multimedia elements such as voice video instant messaging IM online gaming virtual reality etc. SIP has been accepted as a 3GPP signaling protocol as well as a permanent element of the IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS architecture. As described above it is one of the leading signaling protocols for VoIP along with H.323. In general SIP uses a specific message format that is defined in RFC 3261. Equivalently the semantics of SIP can be embodied in an XML based protocol that performs the same set of functions for controlling a network but is carried in self describing messages that are capable of being parsed by a general XML parser. This changes the paradigm of XML used to control data records now controlling network equipment. This provides many benefits including the ability to better function in the new IMS infrastructures that are being assembled.

XML can be described as a meta container language used for binding semantics onto data enabling information portability reference also s expression . There is equivalence between SIP SDP SIP SDP XML and SIP XML where is used to indicate that the item to the right is contained in the item to the left . For example XML can be the base container as is SIP as described above resulting in structures such as XML XML SDP and XML SIP i.e. SIP being carried in an XML base container . XML can be an alternative to SDP as described below being carried in a SIP message. It should be noted that XML is used as the base protocol in some networking equipment as one possible way to provision the networking equipment. The present invention however relates to using XML in order to provision services or acquire other network resources across an entire network. The request to provision such services or acquire such other network resources is generated by either the network equipment itself or applications as described below. Again SIMPLE or XMPP as well as other XML based equivalents can be used in conjunction with the methods and systems of the present invention.

In general XML is a W3C recommended general purpose markup language that is used to create special purpose markup languages capable of describing a plurality of different kinds of data. XML describes data and contains the data as well in a database. It is a subset of Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML and its primary purpose is to facilitate the sharing of data across different systems including those connected to the Internet. Languages that are based on XML include Geography Markup Language GML Resource Definition Framework RDF XML Rich Site Summary RSS Atom MathML Extensible HyperText Markup Language HTML Scalable Vector Graphics SVG MusicXML etc. These languages can be modified and validated by programs without prior knowledge of their form.

XML provides a text based means to describe and apply a tree based structure to information. All of the information manifests as text interspersed with markup that separates the information into a hierarchy of character data container elements and attributes of those container elements. Data structures are expressed in a formal relatively simple manner. An XML schema is a description of a type of XML document expressed in terms of constraints on the structure and content of documents of that type in addition to the constraints imposed by XML itself. A plurality of standard and proprietary XML schema languages have emerged for the purpose of formally expressing such schemas and some of these XML schema languages are themselves XML based.

XML extensions include XPath provides random access to XML data for other technologies including Extensible StyleSheet Language Transformation XSLT Extensible StyleSheet Language Format XSL FO XQuery etc. and refers to all or part of the text data and values in XML elements attributes processing instructions comments etc. XQuery analogous to Structured Query Language SQL for relational databases XML Namespaces enables the same document to contain XML elements and attributes taken from different vocabularies without naming collisions occurring XML Signature defines the syntax and processing rules for creating digital signatures on XML content XML Encryption defines the syntax and processing rules for encrypting XML content and XPointer is a system for addressing components of XML based Internet media.

In summary XML is a meta container language that is used for binding semantics onto data enabling information portability reference also s expression . It is used to exchange information in a structured manner allowing devices or applications to later retrieve or modify the data in an efficient manner. In general the present invention XML is used to carry SIP like semantics i.e. session initiation requests and confirmations.

The present invention also provides a new class of device that blends computer applications hosts or features with networking equipment to allow XML requests to control network resources across multiple OSI layers. illustrate a telecommunications network in varying exemplary embodiments of the present invention. illustrates a network with core nodes and edge nodes . illustrates that two networks such as depicted in interconnect to form a larger network as is common with separate carriers performing interconnects between their respective networks. illustrates a network with external nodes running an application connecting to edge nodes which is common when external nodes attach to a network.

Referring to the network includes core nodes and edge nodes . The network can include any telecommunications devices for nodes such as optical network elements e.g. dense wavelength division multiplexing DWDM elements SONET network elements e.g. OC 48 OC 192 elements and data network elements e.g. routers switches . Traditionally the nodes are provisioned and operated through an EMS that connects to one or more of the nodes . In accordance with the present invention the nodes are configured to accept XML commands to access network resources.

The nodes are equipped with XML Client and or Proxy entities that can receive and generate XML messages to support session establishment independent of the network technology. The XML Client and or Proxy can be hosted directly on the central processor units of the nodes or may be hosted by an attached processor. In a typical case node receives a request in XML from an application residing on a network application server which contains session information such as the session destination and session characteristics e.g. bandwidth application coding format etc. . It processes this to determine the specific requirements to support this session in the particular network technology e.g. packet SONET SDH optical supported by network and arranges for the necessary allocation of resources in its network. It also forwards the XML request to the next XML Proxy as determined by a DNS lookup or other mechanism which could also be the destination XML Client.

One of the edge nodes receives an XML request from a high bandwidth network user residing outside its local network domain again containing session information that it processes to determine specific requirements for the network technology in the network and arranges for allocation of resources in its network and forwards the XML request to the next XML Proxy. A variety of mechanisms can be used for resource allocation within the network including local technology specific protocols used between network nodes and local EMS if this is used for resource control. For SONET SDH for example an edge node might determine from the XML request where the supporting egress node is for the session and compute a SONET SDH path to that egress node based on the bandwidth and class of service requirements associated with the application type bandwidth requirements and codec indicated in the XML request. The SONET SDH path might then be created by using the internal control plane signaling in the network such as sending a PNNI SETUP message if OSRP is used within the network .

Referring to the network includes two networks such as those depicted in to form a larger network. In the network nodes from each of the smaller networks are operable to communicate with one another. This illustrates the example where two carriers meet and interconnect their nodes . In accordance with the present invention the nodes from both networks are configured to accept XML requests to access network resources. This provides an ability to provision and operate the nodes on separate platforms.

The nodes in the networks communicate session service requirements using XML to establish a session crossing both networks . Since the XML request convey the service requirements and is technology independent an edge node in network can derive the requirements for supporting the session in the network s technology while an edge node in network can also derive the requirements for supporting the session in the network s technology. Supporting allocation of resources then can be done independently in each network.

For example if one network is a SONET SDH network using an internal control plane such as OSRP then resources are allocated by sending a PNNI SETUP message requesting SONET SDH timeslot allocation with an associated class of service in order to set up a SONET SDH path from the ingress node to the egress node. If another network is on the other hand a photonic network using an EMS to control the network then resources are allocated by having an edge node receive the XML request determine photonic requirements such as wavelengths required length of path allowed etc. either using local path computation or using the assistance of an EMS and then communicate with the EMS in order to create the necessary path across the network. The EMS then communicates with core nodes and an edge node for the network in order to create a supporting path across the network for the session. In general it should be noted that the network may be a heterogeneous network in that the networks may be different types of networks. In such a case XML is used at the bridge points. In addition different types of intervening networks are possible. It should also be noted that the concepts of the present invention are not limited to optical and specifically DWDM networks but contemplate a wide range of applications.

Referring to there is an application such as that residing in a database in an enterprise and a network such as that provided by a carrier or such as a private network. The application is able to parse XML requests for access network resources. The application generates a request which is in the XML format. The request can be a manually configured request that triggers an event or it can be it an automated request such as that provided by a computer program. This request allows the application to obtain network resources. For example a database needs to perform a backup and requests new and in this example temporary bandwidth from the network . Advantageously the request is directed to the network and not to the destination this being an important distinction from conventional methods and systems and from the way XML was designed to work. The request can contain a plurality of parameters and can even include capability exchange to a network broker similar to that contained in an SDP message. The request can involve items such as wavelength bandwidth and even higher layer concepts such as Ethernet or IP parameters. The request can allow the network to avoid the requirement that all OSI layers are supported in the network this also being an important and separate distinction.

This capability allows abstraction of subnetworks within the network . For example consider a request from an enterprise database to a network. Consider the first network span to be a layer 0 only capable network. The XML request is routed to the controller that sets up a layer 0 optical path across this span. The next hop is to an Ethernet capable network which also has layer 0 capability. The XML request is handed off to the controller for that subnetwork that sets up appropriate parameters in that piece of the network be it done as provisioned or signaled in that network . This XML request is compatible with the first hop e.g. perhaps the optical wavelength has to be the same and this is ensured by either the serialization of the XML request process or by a controller overseeing all hops or by a combination of both. The abstraction of the capabilities of each subnetwork can result in some pieces being able to route at layer 3 some being able to switch at layer 2 or 1 or 0 but the important fact is that the service appears to be at all required layers from the requestor s point of view. This is applicable to any combination of capabilities and subnetworks in any order as happens to be installed. The XML requests are routed sent to appropriate controllers which can themselves be in a hierarchical or serial or single node architecture.

The network can even be multiple carrier networks where the XML request is used as universal intercarrier resource request. This is illustrated in . This in fact fits directly into an IMS network. An IMS or similar network is compatible with this mechanism and brings certain advantages even though these advantages can be brought to bear without a true IMS solution. For example some of the main benefits of IMS are to authenticate the source XML request in order to authenticate the requester to determine what the requestor is allowed to obtain as services and to bill appropriately even intercarrier. With respect to IMS the present invention provides an XML enabled network resource request that is a new way of using the XML to the network or within the network to itself intranodal requests . In general an XML parser and call processing functionality is required to interpret the XML request and obtain specific actions from a given layer of the network .

The present invention can be applied to any network which is configured to accept XML requests. This includes but is not limited to optical networks SONET DWDM data networks IP Ethernet ATM wireless networks storage area networks cable networks enterprise networks among others. The network can include a combination of different networking technologies but controlled utilizing the same XML requests. For example a network can include optical DWDM network elements with SONET OC 192 each carrying Ethernet over SONET and users connected to the routers which in turn connect to through the SONET OC 192 wavelengths. Utilizing XML a single request for increased bandwidth can be given to all the network elements without requiring provisioning at each layer for each network element. Further the present invention provides the capability to add new emerging networking technologies utilizing the same XML framework. For example a wireless link or storage area network could be added to the previous example above and it could request network services utilizing the same XML framework.

Referring to flowchart illustrates an exemplary embodiment of the present invention to set up a network route or the like in a telecommunications network utilizing XML. The telecommunications network can include an optical network e.g. a DWDM network a SONET network e.g. an OC 48 OC 192 network a data network e.g. routers switches and or combinations thereof. Particularly the present invention provides the ability to set up a network route at OSI layers 0 through 3 with XML avoiding the requirement of provisioning different layers separately. A request is generated for a network service in XML Block . The request can be manually configured e.g. via a user request for a new service or automatically configured e.g. via a protection switch responsive to a fault condition . The request can be generated by a network user device or by an internal network element. The network obtains network resources responsive to the request by parsing the XML request and determining from the request those resources that are required at different OSI layers to support the requested service Block . The network responds to the request by configuring network resources at different OSI layers supported by the network in order to provide the requested service Block . For example in an optical network an XML request to transport information from one network user to another would be supported by a receiving network element by obtaining an available wavelength to support the service and configuring any adaptation needed to carry the network user data transported as part of the service.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention utilizing XML for network control in a core network includes a first and second high bandwidth network users connected through an IP MPLS network and a core network . The network user connects to the IP MPLS network . A network element NE operates as a gateway connecting the IP MPLS network to the core network . The IP MPLS network can include an Ethernet network such as a gigabit Ethernet network and it can interconnect to the network element at gigabit Ethernet. The core network includes network elements which can include for example SONET multiplexers or data routers.

In the example illustrated in the network user is operable for sending an XML request to an XML proxy which in turn is sent to the network user . The XML request can provide a request for bandwidth on demand or for a virtual private network service. As illustrated in the network user requests bandwidth between itself and the network user . The XML request message is sent to the XML proxy which in turn provisions the service on the network elements to set up the bandwidth between the network users . This provides an alternative to a technology specific network interface to provision bandwidth across OSI layers 0 through 3.

In a second example illustrated in a first network element with an associated XML client desires to connect to a second network element in order to support a service between network users . The XML client sends an XML request message to the XML client associated with network element . The XML request message is only sent to the session endpoints at the network elements . In turn the core network provisions a service based on the XML request message and bandwidth is provided between the network elements . For example this can include provisioning optical bandwidth through a new wavelength SONET bandwidth by allocating STS 1s and Ethernet bandwidth. A single XML request message is operable to provision at all of these layers.

Referring to in another exemplary embodiment of the present invention utilizing XML for network control a core network includes a first core network an IP MPLS network and a second core network with the first and second networks connected through the IP MPLS network . An XML request message is generated by an XML client associated with one of the network elements in the first network requesting a network service involving the transport of network user data through the first and second networks and the IP MPLS network . The XML client sends the XML request message to an XML proxy which relays it to another XML proxy which in turn relays it to a second XML client . The first XML client provisions a service through the first network and the second XML client provisions a service through the second network . Accordingly bandwidth is provisioned between the networks and the IP MPLS network with a single XML request message . Here XML provides a technology independent call control interface and the XML proxy functions to relay connections across network borders.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention utilizing XML for network control illustrating XML interworking with IP MPLS includes a network an IP MPLS network a network user A and a network user B connected to both the network and the IP MPLS network . The network includes several network elements which can include SONET multiplexers or data routers. In the example of a first network element is configured with an Ethernet port operable to connect to network user A and this port can be configured through a NMS for a service through the network through the network elements . Further the port connected to network user A can be configured utilizing XML. The port connected to network user A is operable to connect to the IP MPLS network through a connection from another network element .

In a first example network connects to the IP MPLS network with an Ethernet connection which can include a 10BaseT 100BaseT or gigabit Ethernet port optionally with a virtual local area network VLAN . This example is likely when the network is connected to a carrier s existing IP MPLS network . The service is created across the network to the egress network element . With regards to the IP MPLS network core routers at each end on the IP MPLS network are manually provisioned with a label and port VLAN. These core routers are given each other s IP address and LDP or RSVP is used to create an LSP. Once provisioned traffic will flow from network user A to network user B . Here XML is used between the network elements of network as a call level signaling indicating the Ethernet service characteristics through the network . Optionally XML can be used on the IP MPLS network and the routers .

In a second example network connects directly to the IP MPLS network with a connection supporting PWE3 encapsulation. Here the connection between the network and the IP MPLS network can include a network element interfacing directly to the router . Here the XML hand off at the connection allows auto provisioning of the Ethernet service across both the network and the IP MPLS network . The XML request is free from network specifics. In this case an IP MPLS network cannot carry native format of the data for example it is TDM so the data is carried across a TDM network as TDM or across an IP MPLS network using PWE3 for that section. XML is the request and the network figures out how to provide the necessary resources to carry the data.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention utilizing XML for network control illustrating XML in an access network includes a network of the same family of network elements connected together and connected to legacy TDM services in an access network and to broadband access devices connected to a network element . The network additionally includes XML clients to provide a technology independent call or session control function. XML specifies the session characteristics to be supported by the transport connection through the network . The XML clients are connected to each other through the IP MPLS network and are configured to accept and relay XML messages. For example the XML client can send an XML request message to XML client requesting bandwidth between the broadband access device and the IP MPLS network . This message is received by the network which provisions bandwidth services on the network elements and provisions a service through the network between the first network element and the second network element .

Referring to another exemplary embodiment of the present invention utilizing XML for network control illustrating XML in an access network includes a network of the same family of network elements connected together and connected to legacy TDM services in an access network connected to new network elements and to broadband access network elements . Here XML clients operate as depicted in to specify the session characteristics to be supported by the transport connection through the network . Additionally illustrates two XML proxies connected to a XML client and the IP MPLS network respectively. The XML proxy terminates the XML client and provides traditional SIP functions such as call routing call forwarding and other call features. The XML clients connected to the XML proxies are operable to provision bandwidth as needed in the network . Further new network elements are capable of being added to the network and interworking with the XML clients for control and operation.

Although the present invention has been illustrated and described herein with reference to preferred embodiments and specific examples thereof it will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other embodiments and examples can perform similar functions and or achieve like results. All such equivalent embodiments and examples are within the spirit and scope of the invention and are intended to be covered by the following claims.

