---

title: Integrated experience of vogue system and method for shared integrated online social interaction
abstract: A novel application and user interface for facilitating group interactions over a network integrates messaging, file sharing, media playing, journaling, profiles, and gaming into a cohesive environment. The groups facilitated by the invention are persistent and mobile in that a user does not have to recollect and reconfigure the group each time he or she wants to interact with the group online and, while online, the group may be taken from one activity to another without having to disband and reconnect at the second activity. The application is modular so as to be extensible to include other activities and functionalities. In an embodiment, the group interaction application utilizes a peer-to-peer network environment to facilitate network communications between group members.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07895524&OS=07895524&RS=07895524
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07895524
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060421
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 230 247 filed Aug. 28 2002 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SHARED INTEGRATED ONLINE SOCIAL INTERACTION . This application is also related to divisional U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 379 640 filed Apr. 21 2006 entitled INTERGRATED EXPERIENCE OF VOGUE SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SHARED INTERGRATED ONLINE SOCIAL INTERACTION and divisional U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 379 638 filed Apr. 21 2006 entitled INTERGRATED EXPERIENCE OF VOGUE SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SHARED INTERGRATED ONLINE SOCIAL INTERACTION . The entireties of the aforementioned applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates generally to communication and interaction over a network connection and more particularly relates to a system and method for facilitating online interactions among small groups of two or more communicating parties.

The advent of the Internet and other networks has rapidly caused a migration of many everyday tasks from the physical world to the digital world. For example communications that would in years past have been memorialized on paper and sent via a mail carrier are now typed electronically and transmitted digitally over a network to the recipient almost instantly. The physical exchange of money during transactions is becoming less frequent and the virtual electronic exchange of funds over networks has become much more prevalent. Indeed the execution of transactions can now take place entirely online such as over the Internet. All in all many activities that used to require physical presence and physical interaction can now take place over a network between remote parties who would otherwise be unable to effectively communicate.

With the coming of the digital age the one activity that has not migrated strongly from the physical world to the digital one has been the group interaction. While there exists a number of mechanisms and forums for a digital communication between remote parties none of these has provided a compelling solution that can lead to widespread use and growth. The existing communications mechanisms all fail in a number of regards to provide a true online group experience. For example no such technologies provide a true group space within which the group members may explore and experience with each other through a wide range of activities. Rather many existing technologies tend to focus on a single activity or endeavor such as gaming or file sharing rather than on the group and its activities and communication. Other technologies allow group chatting but have no true sense of groups requiring setup of the group each time a group chat is attempted and providing no mechanism for transitioning the group to an activity other than pure chatting without again manually setting the group up at the next activity.

While many chatting programs allow contacts to be grouped into buddy lists this set of contacts does not necessarily know of each other s existence nor do they necessarily share activities with each other. In other words the only sense of community is unilaterally imposed by one user onto his or her contacts. Furthermore this grouping of contacts is a mere listing and does not facilitate group activities or interaction further impeding the development of a sense of community.

In short existing online interaction mechanisms do not provide a mechanism for fostering or accessing an intimate persistent relationship within a small select group of users. Moreover the lack of group mobility provided by existing mechanisms further serves to distinguish such systems from real world physical relationships and thus further serves to isolate the user hoping for significant online interaction.

There thus remains a need for an online group communication application through which an intimate group of users can interact with each other in any number of ways and through which users can access nurture and develop their shared relationships with one another. Such a system would finally provide the Internet generation with the online social connection and shared relationships that they now lack.

The present invention is directed to an application and user interface for facilitating group interactions over a network. The application and interface are tailored to provide users with a clear sense of which of their friends are online and available for interactions a sense of what activities a group to which they belong is engaged in and an overall heightened feeling of connection with the group. As the group evolves over a period of time the group can change in size and can also develop a collective history and potentially a collection of group artifacts that have been generated or acquired by the group during their sessions. The group interaction application integrates familiar concepts such as messaging file sharing media playing journals profiles and gaming into a cohesive environment that enhances a feeling of group identity among users.

The groups facilitated by the invention are both persistent and mobile. The persistence of a group means that a user does not have to reconstruct and reconfigure the group each time he or she wants to interact with the group online. Rather the group retains its identity while offline and any member may access the group simply via the user interface. The mobility of a group means that while online the group may be taken from one activity to another without having to disband and reconnect at the second activity. Another way to view this aspect of the application is to consider the second activity to be automatically pre populated with the group members. This pre population eases the transitioning of the group between activities thus improving the likelihood that the group will engage in a wider range of activities and also conveying a sense of permanence of the group.

In an embodiment of the invention the group interaction application utilizes a peer to peer network environment to facilitate network communications between group members. However any networking technology may alternatively be used including hybrid networks or non peer to peer networks. The application is further configured to be modular so that it is extensible to include other activities and functionalities as desired by consumers and as provided by third party developers.

Additional features and advantages of the invention will be made apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments that proceeds with reference to the accompanying figures.

Turning to the drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to like elements the invention is described hereinafter in the context of a computing environment. Although it is not required for practicing the invention the invention is described as it is implemented by computer executable instructions such as program modules that are executed by a computing device. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types.

The invention may be implemented in many different computing device configurations. For example the invention may be realized in hand held devices mobile phones multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like wearable computing or communication devices and any other device capable of both visual display and direct or indirect communication with another device. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices. Thus it will be understood that the invention is preferably incorporated into many types of computing environments as suggested above.

Before describing the invention in greater detail an example computing environment in which the invention may operate is described in connection with . The computing device includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is stored in ROM . The computing device may further include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media.

The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical disk drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the PC . Although the exemplary environment described herein employs a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable media which can store data that is accessible by a computing device such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks Bernoulli cartridges random access memories read only memories and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more applications programs other program modules and program data . A user may enter commands and information into the device through input devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a serial port interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor the computing device typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers and printers.

The device is operable in a networked environment using fixed or transient logical connections to one or more remote computing devices such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be another similar computing device a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other device type such as any of those mentioned elsewhere herein and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although there is no such requirement and only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computing device is connected to the local network through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing device typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN . The modem which may be internal or external is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . Program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used. Additionally the invention is not intended to be limited to a particular network type. Any network type wired or wireless fixed or transient circuit switched packet switched or other network architectures may be used to implement the present invention.

In the description that follows the invention will be described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations that are performed by one or more computing devices unless indicated otherwise. As such it will be understood that such acts and operations which are at times referred to as being computer executed include the manipulation by the processing unit of the computing device of electrical signals representing data in a structured form. This manipulation transforms the data or maintains it at locations in the memory system of the computing device which reconfigures or otherwise alters the operation of the computing device in a manner well understood by those skilled in the art. The data structures where data is maintained are physical locations of the memory that have particular properties defined by the format of the data. However while the invention is being described in the foregoing context it is not meant to be limiting as those of skill in the art will appreciate that various of the acts and operations described hereinafter may also be implemented in hardware.

One or more user machines used to implement an embodiment of the invention may be as illustrated with respect to the computing device architecture of although there is no such limitation inherent in the invention. It is contemplated that an implementation of the invention will additionally or alternatively be used with any of a number of other communication device types including but not limited to wearable communication devices cell phones and PDAs.

The user interface in an embodiment of the invention is tailored to give the user a clear sense of whom among their group of friends is online a sense of what activities the group is engaged in and an overall sense of connection with the group. As the group evolves over time the group may change and may also develop a collective history and potentially a collection of group artifacts. The group interaction application thus integrates familiar concepts such as messaging file sharing media playing journals profiles and gaming into a cohesive environment that fosters group identity while potentially also cultivating individual relationships within the group.

One overall user interface presentation according to an embodiment of the invention will be described with reference to before describing individual features in greater detail. The screen display according to an embodiment of the invention comprises one or more of a number of elements all designed to further the group experience. Predominantly a group space provides a central place for interacting with the group. Note that a particular user may have more than one group to which he or she belongs and that each member of a group may belong to a group or groups to which one or more other members do not belong. Thus although the relevant group space appears to each group member and appears identically on each machine there may be portions of a user s screen display that are not shared with other group members. Thus for example the screen display further may comprise additionally or alternatively another group space that pertains to a group that contains the user associated with the display and at least one other party. In addition to one or more group spaces a number of other graphical features may be provided in the display within embodiments of the invention. For example a group bar displays character images corresponding to the user their groups and friends a friend essentially pertains to a group of two the user and the friend and has other features as well as will be discussed in greater detail below. Finally the display may also include a personal space such as of a party other than the user so that the user may become more familiar with the individual associated with the space . Various features and embodiments of the personal space will be discussed in greater detail below.

The group space is flexible and modular as will be described hereinafter however an exemplary set of group space features is illustrated within the group space of . Another exemplary group space will be described with respect to . The left side of the group space incorporates a messenging or dialog area . The dialog area displays lines of a conversation between group members in essentially real time according to network transmission and receipt capabilities in much the same way that a transcript records a spoken conversation. In an embodiment of the invention each contributor types a sentence or contribution in the entry area . Once the contribution is complete the member actuates a send button or other actuator so that his or her contribution appears in every member s group space display in the dialog area . In an alternative embodiment of the invention each contributor s keyboard input in the dialog area is displayed at each group member machine as it is entered. In this way the contributing user can see their entry as they type and still each group member is able to see what each other group member including the contributor can see. Generally network bandwidth constraints will favor the former approach.

In order to let each member know who the speakers are in the current dialog a character and name associated uniquely with each member appears next to that member s contributions in the dialog area. The character may be a photograph drawing or other graphical material chosen by the user to represent their identity and personal style to the group. The name may be the member s actual name or may be any other name chosen by the member. This level of customizability allows the group members greater freedom in expressing themselves to the group a freedom that is valuable to the generation that most typically utilizes the Internet for entertainment purposes.

In addition to the characters names and the dialog itself other information may also appear in the dialog area . For example when a group member joins the conversation such as by clicking in the dialog area a notification will be presented in an embodiment of the invention to indicate that the user is now engaged in the conversation. The group space supports file sharing capabilities in an embodiment of the invention. Such sharing is preferably achieved by the dragging and dropping of a file onto the group space by one member. In such a situation a notification can appear inline in the dialog area to let the other members know that the file is available. In addition to the various controls for directing and interacting with the group session the group space may also incorporate window controls such as close control . In an embodiment of the invention the close control serves not only to close the window corresponding to the group space but also to end the user s session with the group.

Another exemplary feature of the group space in an embodiment of the invention is a list or array of group member characters located centrally in the group space . The characters are typically the same as the characters used to identify speakers in the dialog area and may represent all group members or instead only those group members that are currently online. A series of activity selection icons is preferably made available so that the user may easily select an activity to which to take the group. For example by selecting the audio icon the user can introduce the group to an audio sharing activity. When a user opens an audio activity for the group the entire online membership of the group is automatically taken to the audio activity via their respective displays. In other words the resultant audio activity display appears on each member s screen as shown in . Note that the activity selection may instead be made in an embodiment of the invention indirectly via another type of control such as a menu that once selected yields a drop down list of activities for further selection.

The resultant display preferably incorporates a play list identifying material to be played and any desired related information such as duration of play as is shown in . The display also preferably includes audio controls for controlling the play of the audio material such as volume pause stop rewind and fast forward controls. Each member is preferably able to alter the play list by adding or deleting items and by controlling the current item being played. Thus an item add control and an item remove control are preferably provided. Cursor keys are used in an embodiment of the invention to select the play list item of interest. A notifier can be used to signal to other members whether or not a particular user is tuned in to the audio activity. As with many other window types the audio activity window preferably also includes a close control and a minimize control .

The audio material shared in the audio activity may be obtained from any source including local memory remote memory a server a peripheral audio device and so on without limitation. In one embodiment of the invention it is desirable to provide a buy button actuatable by a user to purchase a proprietary audio item such as may be currently selected in the play list . In this way the user can listen to the purchased item even when the group member that played the item in the group audio activity is not online or when the user wishes to listen in private or with another group.

The group space of represents one of a number of potential group space appearances and configurations. An alternative group space configuration is shown in . In the group space of two group members are currently online as indicated by the two characters in the character list . One of the group members has directed the group to a photo activity wherein a photograph may be shared and drawn upon or annotated. Note that a dialog area is open with an attendant entry area and send button and is usable during the photo activity as it may be in any group space configuration and activity depending upon designer preferences.

Art tools are available for selection by each member in order to annotate the photograph . In particular a pencil tool allows the user to draw on the photograph while a paint tool allows the user to paint. The user may use an eraser tool to erase any annotation already on the photograph . Other controls are preferably provided within the photo activity group space window as well. For example an add button is usable to add a new photograph to the window while a subtract button serves to remove a photograph from the window. Similarly a close control and a minimize control may be provided although only a close control is shown in the figure. The photograph or photographs used in the photo activity may be obtained from any conventional source or otherwise such as from a scanner from a network interface from local or remote memory or any other device or facility usable to store or transfer an image.

Another graphical item associated with the group space and its underlying application in an embodiment of the invention is a group bar as shown in . The group bar which can be skinned to reflect the user s personal style serves to display a user s self their groups and their friends. The display of the various entities is preferably accomplished by displaying the associated name and character or other graphical element. Each set of entities appears in its own area of the bar . Thus the user appears as a character and name in a first section their groups appear as characters and names in a second section and the user s friends appear as characters and names in a third section . Because the group bar is preferably limited in size to remain fairly unobtrusive on the desktop the number of characters and names in a given field may be limited with scroll bars being usable to view any presently unseen items. In an embodiment of the invention the friend and group items in the group bar are ordered within their sections via dynamic list ordering.

In addition to the various controls sections and features of the group bar already discussed there are also preferably provided typical window controls as needed such as a minimize control and a close control . Other window controls and options may be provided in various implementations. For example a selectable help item may be provided so that a user can access aid in operating the application when needed.

The group bar is preferably usually maintained on the user s desktop or other display by the group interaction application even when the user is not actively in communication with any friend or group member as a reminder of the relationships and more importantly as a point of contact to and information about the friends or groups. The user can utilize the group bar to manage their social interactions by setting a mood mode and status. In particular the user s chosen mood appears in the self area adjacent to their name and character such as feelin fine in the figure and is available to other friends or group members. For example by hovering the cursor over James friend icon Tina the current user as identified in the self area is able to view James mood Life is good in a pop up window . In addition to setting mood users are also able to set a mode. For example Tina may choose for social management purposes to appear as offline to all or some of her friends and group members. It can be seen from the pop up window that James mode is online at least with respect to Tina. Various modes include invisible i.e. offline work mode or any other mode that the user may choose to project. The status of the user lets other friends or group members know more about what that user is involved in. For example James status appears to Tina as Idle. 

As noted the group bar serves as a point of contact from the user to their friends and groups. From observing the appropriate items in the group bar the user can determine what if anything each friend or group is involved in. For example it can be seen by Tina that the Econ Wonks group represented by the item is viewing video material such as an animation or video segment represented by the activity icon . Similarly it can be seen that the RiffRaff group represented by item is listening to audio material and chatting.

The user in this case Tina can use the group bar to join in a current group session or to start a session. For example by mouse clicking on a group icon the relevant group space appears on Tina s screen in the case of an ongoing session. With respect to a new session a group space appears and other group members can see via their respective group bars the activities of Tina within the group space. As noted above the group space itself also provides an avenue through the character list for contacting group members such as to invite them to join in a session.

There are a number of other possible implementations for a launch point for the group interaction application. For example a simplified launch point may not be configured as a bar but may instead appear as another shaped space having tools and features situated thereon. Such a space can incorporate many of the aspects of the group space and the group bar. For example the space can include selectable controls for modifying its appearance closing and minimizing it accessing help accessing an existing group or initiating an ad hoc group centered on a selected activity accessing a library of received greetings and so forth. Other controls and features may be included in addition to or instead of those described and the shape of the space may be any shape desired by the designer. The alternative launch point can provide a way to more explicitly expose a user to the range of features supported by the group interaction application providing an easier start up experience for the user.

A further graphical item associated with the group space and its underlying application in an embodiment of the invention is a personal space as shown in . The personal space is a place for its owner to privately express herself or himself through art audio material pictures a social network and a journal. The journal is the central aspect of the personal space providing a written record of the drafter s thoughts and feelings. The journal as well as the other features of the personal space are accessible via tabs in an embodiment of the invention. Thus there is presented in the personal space a journal tab to access the journal an audio tab usable to access any music hosted in the space a pictures tab usable to access any hosted pictures and a calling card tab usable to access the owner s calling card. The calling card is a card that may be distributed by its owner to convey information about the owner and their interests. Finally the personal space also includes a my friends tab which can be actuated to display the owner s social network i.e. the friends and groups with which the owner is associated. The journal includes date frame selection controls e.g. a current control usable to view the current journal entries and an archive control usable to view archived journal entries. Whichever version of the journal is viewed a scroll bar may also be provided to allow the viewer to scroll through the journal material. Finally the personal space also includes other windows controls where appropriate such as close control which is usable to close the space .

Note that the personal space is by definition personal. Accordingly it is not freely viewable by all parties including group members or friends associated with the owner. Rather it is available only by permission of the owner and thus serves to introduce a more intimate level of connection when circumstances warrant. Thus if the owner is involved in a group session and shares his or her personal space with one other group member the remaining members of the group will not be able to see the space. It is also contemplated that the owner may permanently or for certain periods view the personal space privately without sharing it in any way with another party.

Just as in the physical world users of the group interaction application and its related features will expect their relationships to evolve over time acquiring a sense of history and group identity. This objective is furthered via support in the group space for both the acquisition of group artifacts and the accumulation of group history. With respect to group history the group history is maintained so that a user may go back and look at what has occurred in terms of selected or significant events within the group. Thus notifications file received greeting received new member joined group file download complete file no longer available are stored and may be perused and kept or deleted. This may especially useful when a user has left their computer momentarily and an event occurs while they are absent. Preferably the stored history at a particular user s machine is cleared wholly or partially such as of all greeting notifications when the current group session is terminated with respect to that user. In this manner the group history file size is limited to a reasonable level.

The storage location for the group history is preferably the peer to peer file cache when the invention is implemented in a wholly or partially peer to peer network environment although such is not required. If the cache file size is limited entries are preferably culled on a first in first out basis so that older items are removed prior to newer items. In some cases a user may be able to retrieve an item from the peer to peer file system even though it has been deleted from the relevant peer to peer cache.

With respect to artifacts e.g. the items generated by or shared with the group during their sessions such as annotated pictures etc. these artifacts may be saved in the same manner as the group history. Thus a user can elect to view an annotated photograph that was generated during a prior group session with the understanding that in an environment of limited memory certain older items may at some point become unavailable.

Having discussed the user interface aspects of the group space and associated graphical items the underlying modular group framework will now be discussed in greater detail. It is desirable that the group space application be extensible so that activities may be added over time in addition to the activities already provided with the application upon distribution. Accordingly the programmatic configuration of the underlying group interaction application is preferably modular so that additional activity modules may be constructed by third parties to interface with the application. Thus for example a photo activity module that is accessed by the group interaction application provides the photo activity functionality. Similarly the audio activity functionality is provided by an audio activity module. Additional modules could be for example a shared journal activity module a jam session activity module and game activity modules.

The schematic diagram of illustrates the modular nature and programmatic components of the group interaction application. The primary component of the architecture is the module manager . The module manager presents an interface such as IRegister for allowing additional activity modules such as modules and to install and uninstall themselves from the group interaction application . Each module comprises an activity interface such as IActivityModule as well as activity resources such as for example clip art. As part of the install process the module to be added provides information about itself such as through an IModuleInfo interface sufficient to allow the module to be loaded from a group space menu or other access point. In addition the module should provide sufficient information to allow the group interaction application to supply module specific user interface elements and module specific help information. This information is useful additionally when a file is automatically transferred into the group space such as by a drag and drop operation. In this case the module identifying information is used to ensure that the proper module is loaded if need be and that in any case the file is dropped into the appropriate module. An activity notification interface such as IActivityPresence on the module manager is usable to notify other users of similar modules that the user of the present module is active in the module. Thus for example a group member having a photo activity module may be notified via IActivityPresence when another group member is active in their respective photo activity module.

Each module interacts with both the module manager and the group space container module which is primarily responsible for presenting the group space and processing events commands etc. therein. An appropriate interface to the group space container module is provided such as IGSC . Both the group space container and the module manager have access to a peer to peer group framework which is described in further detail with respect to . The framework in turn accesses messenger facilities for sending invitations and so forth as well as a peer to peer interface for accessing the peer to peer network services and functions.

Note that a LiveWire application optionally also interfaces with the module manager the group space container and the group framework to perform its functions. The livewire application performs and facilitates various functions as outlined in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 174422 filed on Jun. 18 2002 by Zaner et al. entitled Visual Group Interface For Group Connectivity which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety for all that it teaches without limitation whatsoever to any particular subject matter.

The group framework is illustrated in greater detail schematically in . The group framework is an API that exposes a set of group objects such as group object shown expanded . A group is essentially a set of people or more precisely their machines as represented in user collection that are connected over a network with a synchronized database file store and the ability to send transient messages to each other.

Group objects can be sandboxed in two ways. The first way is through their application ID. If a group object requests a record store or filestore etc based on their application ID they will only see records stored by them. Another way in which to sandbox a group is through sub groups such as in subgroup collection . A sub group is essentially a pointer to a separate group object. The object of a sub group is to create a child group so that an application can have secure temporary members. If a temporary member is invited to the subgroup once they leave they cannot access the original group because it is a separate group. This is also useful in establishing a transient session when not all members of the group want to receive all the network data of an activity that is transpiring.

The group object thus comprises a record store and a file share store . Both stores and are distributed. In particular the file share store is a distributed file system that provides shared files to group members. Optimally the network of group members is arranged so that file transfer occurs efficiently i.e. such that lower bandwidth members are topographically located further toward the fringe of the network whereas higher bandwidth members are preferably located more centrally and are used to further fan materials to other members. The record store is essentially a distributed shared database.

A graphical list provides a launch point for various activities through user selection of the appropriate icon. The activity icons illustrated include icons for an audio activity a scrapbook activity and a chat activity. As more activities become available due to the modular nature of the underlying group interaction application more icons will be placed in the list . Other controls include a close control a minimize control and a return to original configuration control . The latter is usable to return the shape and skin of the space which are user alterable to an original state reflecting a configuration prior to user alteration.

A memory cube icon allows users to save activities providing an alternative history mechanism to that described earlier. In particular after selecting the memory cube icon the user is then prompted to indicate which activities to save. For example a dialog will prompt the user to select any or all of the ongoing activities such as a chat discussion a scrapbook activity and an audio activity. After selecting which activities to save the application saves the activities in their present state without halting the activity to a file represented graphically in an embodiment of the invention as a cube. The saving step is accompanied preferably in an embodiment of the invention by an origami animation folding the selected activities into a cube. The user may be prompted for a save location with the user s desktop being the preferred default location.

The history saved in this manner may be used in any way that the user desires. For example the memory cubes may organized in files positioned on the desktop dragged and dropped onto the corkboard to be discussed hereinafter for viewing listening or reading by the other group members shared via email or instant messaging posted on web sites or web logs etc. In an embodiment of the invention however the memory cubes are not editable. This is because one purpose that many users will want to employ the cubes for is to capture the emotion and spontaneity of a moment. To allow editing would tend to defeat this purpose as many users would edit the cubes to achieve a perfect memory rather than preserve what really transpired. Of course editing may be allowed in embodiments according to designer and or user preferences.

The memory cubes may be implemented in either of two ways. In the first the memory cube is an individual feature so that a user may cube an activity without notifying or disturbing any of the other members. Alternatively the memory cube is a group feature so that any member can access the cube the saved history being stored in the group storage at a shared group server.

The scrollable group member icon name listing performs a function similar to that above. Similarly the chat space is usable in the manner described earlier. In addition a control such as the fortune cookie control is usable to provide conversation starters jokes ice breakers and so on. In particular by manipulating the control the user is able to insert a joke little known fact etc. into the conversation wherein the material is selected randomly from a database of such material. Users can supplement the database with other materials as desired. The emoticon control is manipulated by the user to insert a selected emoticon an icon that conveys emotion into the conversation. In an embodiment of the invention the control yields a drop down list of emoticons for selection.

At the left of the group space a group corkboard is displayed. The corkboard acts in a similar fashion to a physical work space or dormitory corkboard in that users are free to post materials to the corkboard for others to observe. Any type of material may be posted to the corkboard by any member including textual graphical pictorial photographic animated video and audio materials. The corkboard acts as a drop target accepting dragged and dropped materials such as files. Files appear on the corkboard as icons such as a speaker for audio files a paper icon for textual files although in an embodiment of the invention pictures appear as thumbnails. By clicking on the relevant icon or thumbnail the user is shown a larger image in the case of visual materials and in the case of audio materials or audio portions of visual materials such as a video sound track the material is audibly presented via speakers.

Controls situated near the corkboard may also be used to add materials thereto. For example a balloon icon can be selected by the user to add a cartoon word balloon or thought balloon to the corkboard typically associated with a particular image such as of a person. Upon selecting the icon the user is presented with a dialog box prompting the user through the process of creating and posting the balloon. A magnetic letters icon can be selected to present a list of letters and words for the user to assemble into a message to post to the corkboard . Similarly a stick on note icon can be used to post short notes onto the corkboard . By selecting the icon the user is provided with an area to enter a textual message which the user can then post the message to the board as a note . The user can position the note on the board by dragging. In an embodiment of the invention the notes are not typically legible on the board but are openable by selection such as by double clicking to display a larger and legible version. It will be appreciated that any other corkboard controls such as a sticker control to allow selection and placement of stickers may additionally or alternatively be provided without limitation depending upon designer and user preferences.

In an embodiment of the invention activity modules are resizable such as by grip and dockable and may be snapped onto the group space by placing them adjacent to one another. illustrates a conglomeration of a group space an audio sharing activity and a scrapbook activity . It can be seen that the mating sides of the components are shaped to come together smoothly to form a unified visual display if the user so chooses.

A scrapbook activity is provided in an embodiment of the invention to allow a user to create a virtual scrapbook. illustrate exemplary user interfaces for the scrapbook activity in embodiments of the invention. The scrapbook is usable to create a group or personal artifact comprised of photographs and other materials. The scrapbook opens up empty in a collage view for a new scrapbook and can then be filled and populated by the user. For example photographs can be dragged and dropped into the scrapbook and dragged within the scrapbook . The scrapbook supports one or both of two views in embodiments of the invention the first being a collage view and the second being a single view. In an embodiment of the invention a view control allows the user to select either the collage view or the single view. In the single view a page forward backward control not shown may be provided to allow the members to flip through the scrapbook photograph by photograph. In the collage view a similar control may be provided to allow members to scroll across the scrapbook.

It can be seen that the scrapbook activity shares a number of features with the other windows discussed herein. For example the scrapbook preferably supports a group icon a skin drop target a help button a close control a minimize control and a return to original state control . In addition a supplemental control is selectable by the user to add or remove photographs from the scrapbook . In an embodiment of the invention a print control prints the scrapbook when selected. In a further embodiment selection of the print control yields a prompt to the user to select the details of the print job such as for example whether to print all or only one of the photos what resolution to use etc.

Finally the scrapbook also preferably includes tools usable to annotate the photographs of the scrapbook. For example a drawing control similar to that discussed above can be used to draw on the photographs. A palette allows the user to select the color in which to draw while a line selection field allows the user to select a line width in which to draw. A balloon control is selectable to allow a user to place a cartoon word or thought balloon on a photograph in the scrapbook as discussed above. In particular selection of the balloon control yields a drop down array of selectable choices of balloon types to insert. Other annotation tools include a note tool usable to insert a note into the scrapbook an audio insert tool usable to insert a selectable audio note into the scrapbook and a map control . The map control is selectable to access or input geographical information regarding a particular photograph such as a location where the photograph was taken. Such geographical information may be presented in the form of a map with one or more photographs situated on the map at particular locations as appropriate. As a group activity the scrapbook is shared synchronously. That is each group member sees the same view of the scrapbook as the other members. In addition each can annotate the current view and can see others annotations as well.

The scrapbook has interesting benefits when one or more members are connected to the group via a mobile device such as a handheld phone or other mobile computing device. For example the scrapbook can be used as a travel journal that is sharable with one s group members either synchronously or a synchronously. For GPS equipped mobile devices the GPS information can be automatically linked into the scrapbook for example automatically providing a description or map of the location where a photograph is taken. There are many other ways in which the scrapbook can be used to share one member s mobile experience with other members that may or may not be mobile. For example one member can shop for a prom dress posting photographs of herself to the scrapbook as she tries on different dresses. In addition to simply observing the other group members can comment on the dresses or vote on which photograph looks best to help the shopping member pick a dress.

In addition to the functionality described above a number of other features may be implemented without limitation. For example in addition to the file sharing functionality described above a user may also in an embodiment of the invention allow other group members to roam their personal data such as buddy lists character images skins pictures journals audio files etc. Additionally in order to simplify the use of the group interaction application for users already established in alternative Internet messenger technologies it is desirable both to allow communication to users of other Internet messenger technologies and to utilize the contact lists established by the user for such technologies to provide contact information for use within the group interaction application.

It will be appreciated that a novel application and interface for group interaction over a network have been described. In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of this invention may be applied it should be recognized that the embodiments described herein with respect to the drawing figures are meant to be illustrative only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention. Those of skill in the art will recognize that the elements of the illustrated embodiments shown in software may be implemented in hardware and vice versa or that the illustrated embodiments can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from the spirit of the invention. For example although the invention has been described primarily with reference to personal computers and their associated displays and desktops it should be appreciated that the invention does not require a PC or a traditional desktop but rather can also be implemented on other devices that support a visual display function. Therefore the invention as described herein contemplates all such embodiments as may come within the scope of the following claims and equivalents thereof.

