---

title: Soap mobile electronic human interface device
abstract: A new mobile electronic device, referred to as a soap, may be used to control electronic devices, external or internal to the soap, in an intuitive, convenient, and comfortable manner. For example, a soap may serve as an alternative to input devices such as a mouse. A soap device may include a core, and a hull that at least partially encloses the core. The core includes a tracking component capable of tracking movement relative to the hull. The soap input device also includes a transmission component configured to transmit a signal from the tracking component to a computing device, where it may control the position of a pointer and the use of a selector on a monitor. The hull may be soft and flexible, the core may be freely rotatable about at least one axis. The core has a shape such that tangentially applied pressure rotates the core relative to the hull. A user may therefore control an electronic device, simply by rolling and manipulating the soap.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07626572&OS=07626572&RS=07626572
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07626572
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060615
---
A substantial factor determining the productivity and utility users derive from their computers is the user friendliness and convenience of the user s experience with a computer. Even a small difference in ease and convenience of the user interface can make a significant difference in the productivity of a user s experience. The adoption of graphical user interfaces GUI s presented a dramatic leap forward in ease of use and allowed users to see a variety of different graphical indicators icons or buttons with one glance and select from among such graphical indicators by merely navigating a pointer to a desired graphical indicator and selecting it for example.

Several different pointing input devices over decades of experimentation and commercialization have been used to control the pointer in a graphical user interface. The mouse has been the most popular input device for controlling a pointer and selector. Other pointer input devices have included styluses trackballs trackpads and scrolling dials for example. Some of these pointer control input devices are physically integrated with a keyboard or console while some require physical contact with an output screen while still others such as a mouse require physical contact or very close physical proximity to an external reference surface. These input devices have also occasionally been found to present issues of discomfort or repetitive stress when used intensively over a significant amount of time.

The discussion above is merely provided for general background information and is not intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A new mobile electronic device referred to as a soap has been invented. A soap may serve as an alternative to a mouse input device in one exemplary implementation. According to various illustrative embodiments a soap device includes a core and a hull that at least partially encloses the core. The core includes a tracking component capable of tracking movement relative to the hull. The soap device also includes an output component configured to provide a signal from the tracking component to an electronic device which may be by wireless transmission to an external device or to an electronic device internal to the soap. According to one illustrative embodiment the hull is soft and flexible the core is rigid and freely rotatable within the hull about at least one axis and the core has a shape such that pressure tangentially applied to the hull such as by rolling or kneading the soap similar to how one might roll a wet bar of bath soap in one s hand rotates the core relative to the hull. A user may therefore control an electronic device simply by rolling and manipulating the soap. For example in one illustrative implementation a soap may be used to control a pointer on a monitor of a computing device and perform input functions typical of a mouse such as point click and scrolling functions simply by rolling and manipulating the soap.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in the background.

Embodiments of a soap can be implemented in a variety of ways. The following descriptions are of illustrative embodiments and constitute examples of features in those illustrative embodiments though other embodiments are not limited to the particular illustrative features described.

A soap provides advantages over existing input devices for example as a mobile user interface pointer control device in place of a mouse. A soap does not need to be held on and moved relative to an external surface but instead may be used to perform the functions of a mouse while being held and controlled in one hand in mid air for this illustrative example. For a pointer control soap implementation this provides a key advance for removing the computer and information technology experience from being restricted to a desktop or to immediate physical contact with a mobile computing device. For this or any other implementation example a soap empowers the user to freely control computing or other electronic devices anywhere in her presence without having to think about either physical contact with the devices or physical contact of her input device with an external surface. As a couple of examples this facilitates the transition of the computing device usage experience to one with a very large monitor that might be across the room from a user which may provide a television or theater type experience in an integrated format with a computer game or Internet experience along with other computing device applications.

A user may continue to roll a soap in one direction indefinitely simply by rolling it around and around in her hand as one might do with a bar of bath soap. For the example of a pointer control soap for a computing device the soap input device thereby enables a user to scroll continuously or perform an indefinitely long pointer position movement with a single uninterrupted motion.

As illustratively depicted in a user holds a soap in his hand and may manipulate it about one or two axes in different illustrative embodiments. By making a regular rolling or rubbing motion with his hand the user can manipulate the inner core of soap to rotate continuously about either of the two axes in this illustrative embodiment. This type of interaction which may be referred to as a soap interaction keeps the outer hull in roughly stationary contact with the user s hand while the core is being turned about. A user may also drag the outer hull in one direction on one side of soap and in the other direction on the other side of soap while keeping the core in roughly the same orientation accomplishing a similar effect as with the soap interaction this is referred to as a belt interaction. A user may also hold the soap in a constant grip while pressing the outer hull in different directions over the sensor this is referred to as a joystick interaction since it treats the outer hull over the sensor in an analogous manner to a joystick.

As depicted in soap input device includes an inner first hull a second hull an outer hull and a core . Core includes an optical sensor that functions as a tracking component capable of tracking movement relative to one of the hulls such as the outer hull . The core is at least partially enclosed by the first hull in this illustrative embodiment. In other embodiments soap may include only a single hull that partially encloses core and that functions as the reference surface for optical sensor to track its movement relative to. The full complement of components depicted in the soap according to the illustrative example in are not all necessary in other embodiments for example demonstrates a simpler structure for a different implementation of a soap as described further below.

As depicted in core also includes processor configured to perform processing and control functions for soap power component configured to provide the power for soap and wireless transmitter configured to transmit a signal from the optical sensor to a computing device such as to convey the relative motion of optical sensor relative to its reference surface on outer hull in this illustrative embodiment. In other embodiments the soap may control an internal device and does not require a transmitter an illustrative embodiment of this is described further below with reference to .

As depicted in soap also includes pressure sensors and lubricant contained between first hull and second hull in this illustrative embodiment. First hull and second hull are flexible and may be elastic and outer hull is soft and flexible in this illustrative embodiment. Other embodiments do not require pressure sensors or a lubricant or separate first and second hulls which are included in the present illustrative example to indicate a few optional features that may be included in a soap. An example of a soap not using these optional features is provided in discussed further below.

Core has a relatively wider dimension along its length and width as seen in while it has a fairly narrow height as seen in making it roughly lentil shaped. The difference in dimensions enables the core to be rotated around and around about one or two axes within first hull by a user rolling or kneading the soap with one hand. Optical sensor then tracks changes in its position relative to first hull which acts as a flexible tracking reference in a manner analogous to the optical sensor of a mouse tracking its position relative to a mousepad. In another implementation not depicted in the figures a soap could have a greater length than width and be configured to rotate about only one axis which may be preferred for certain applications.

Optical sensor may include a light source such as a red LED for example as well as a detector optimized for reading the reflection from the light source on a reference surface in this illustrative embodiment. Optical sensor has a focal length at least equal to a distance between the optical sensor and the outer hull in this illustrative embodiment. While an optical sensor is provided in this illustrative example other implementations may use any type of surface tracking device such as a mechanical tracker a laser a camera or other option. In this embodiment the first hull the lubricant and the second hull are composed of materials that are effectively transparent to the optical sensor . For example the first hull and second hull may be composed at least in part of polyurethane and the lubricant composed at least in part of oil in the present illustrative embodiment. The signal used by optical sensor then uses the inner surface of outer hull as its reference surface and passes through first hull the lubricant and the second hull well enough not to interfere with its reliable effectiveness in sensing outer hull as its reference surface in this illustrative embodiment.

As soap is manipulated in the user s hand then the optical sensor is moved relative to the inner surface of outer hull determining the signal generated by optical sensor . Incidentally in this illustrative embodiment the focal length for the optical sensor is typically longer than the focal length of the optical sensor of an optical mouse to optimize for the longer typical displacement between the soap s optical sensor and its reference surface versus the typical operational displacement between a mouse s optical sensor and a mousepad.

Hull portion B moves relative to sensor B demonstrating the relative movement of the hull B forming the tracking reference for sensor B as soap B is manipulated. Hull portion B is poised directly above sensor B just before the manipulation depicted in begins as in the panel at left. As the user presses soap B at an angle from on center hull portion B is moved away from sensor B as depicted in the panel at center and then more substantially after the user manipulation continues to progress as depicted in the panel at right. Hull portion B is selected from among hull B merely to depict the tracking motion but has no special significance apart from the rest of hull B the interior of hull B is similarly moved relative to sensor B during other user manipulations causing sensor B to provide a signal responsive to the tracked relative motion of hull B.

In the illustrative embodiment of the user is able to use soap from a significant displacement from the computing device associated with user interface monitor and wireless transmitter has a range long enough to reliably transmit user input signals from soap from across a room and over substantially longer distances. Other embodiments are not limited to the illustrative example of a wireless transmitter and may include a wired transmission line that may be connected between soap and the associated computing device.

A variety of mechanisms may be used in different embodiments of a soap to indicate a user selection input analogous to clicking a button on a mouse as is commonly done to select or click on an icon a link or another graphical object on which a pointer is positioned. For example soap may include an input mechanism for indicating a user selection input that includes pressure sensors of soap . Whereas the directional input is indicated by applying tangential pressure to rotate the core with respect to its reference surface pressure sensors are activated by applying perpendicular non tangential pressure to soap . This can take the form of pressing a single pressure sensor so that it functions as a sub surface button or of applying pressure more generally to soap such as by squeezing it.

In one embodiment different pressure sensors may serve as distinct buttons for indicating separate user input functions such as to correspond to typical left click and right click distinctions assigned to left and right buttons on a traditional mouse. In an illustrative embodiment one or more pressure sensors may also include features that assist in locating them through the intervening layer or layers of the soap. For example pressure sensors may be distinctly raised or they may have associated lights that are visible through the layer or layers. Pressure sensors thereby provide a means for detecting substantially perpendicular non tangential pressure on the core to indicate a user selection input. Such selection inputs like the pointer position inputs determined by manipulation of the position of the optical sensor relative to its reference surface may be transmitted to a computing device via wireless transmitter . Many other types of selection input devices may be used such as a tilt sensor that the user activates by flicking the soap or a microphone that activates by the user tapping the soap or a button on a separate device for example.

While the pressure sensors have been indicated in certain positions in the illustrative embodiment of other embodiments are not limited to this illustrative example. Other pressure sensors buttons or other user selection input mechanisms may be located anywhere on soap in other embodiments. A separate button pad or other selection input mechanism separate from soap is also possible in other embodiments.

Depending on details of configuration such as viscosity of lubricant flexibility or elasticity of first hull and second hull and sensitivity of pressure sensors it may be difficult for a beginning soap user to apply a perpendicular pressure to indicate a selection input without applying an inadvertent component of tangential pressure which would drive a change in position of pointer . In this case it might therefore be difficult to reliably click on or select an intended icon link or other graphical object with pointer without at the same time disturbing the position of pointer potentially repositioning the pointer to an unintended position at the point in time in which the select input is received. While this is not likely to be noticeable in uses such as clicking on an icon in a graphical user interface this may become a particularly urgent issue in applications in which it becomes critically important to make selections with the pointer as rapidly and precisely as possible such as in teleoperation of mechanical devices or in a computer game. A number of solutions may be used to resolve this issue such as those described below.

In one illustrative embodiment for example the friction profile and other mechanical characteristics of the soap components may be optimized to ensure that users are reliably quickly and intuitively able to engage positioning control and selection control independently with a high degree of speed and precision.

In yet another example which may be combined with the previous ones a signal processing solution may be applied. For example whenever the pressure sensor or another means for indicating a selection input is engaged processor or a processor in an associated computing device may reverse a brief time segment of the signal from the tracking component before the user selection input is indicated. That is the processor or executed software may back up the pointer to the position it occupied a small segment of time before the user selection input was received the segment of time corresponding to the typical gap in time if any between a user beginning a hand motion to engage the selection input and the selection input being transmitted thereby canceling out the effect of any intervening disturbance of the position of the tracking component. That gap in time if it occurs at all is typically in the general range of a tenth of a second to a hundredth of a second.

In other embodiments a soap is not limited to controlling the position of a pointer on a graphical user interface as in the illustrative embodiment described above. A soap may be used as a user input device for any kind of computing device. As another illustrative example a soap may be used analogous to a remote control for a video display a game controller for a computer game or a playback controller for a music player device for example. Other embodiments are also not limited to an independent core that is rotatable about two axes within a hull. In another illustrative embodiment a core is partially enclosed by a cylindrical conveyor belt type hull that wraps snugly around it such that the core is free to move back and forth about only a single axis.

Other embodiments are also not limited to an optical sensor but may have a mechanical position sensor or any other kind of tracking component. In other embodiments the core can also take any kind of shape that is capable of being turned or rotated by an application of shear or tangential pressure through a surrounding hull such as by a one handed rolling or kneading motion. Different embodiments having a core shaped like a kidney or a lentil or an oblate spheroidal or prolate spheroidal shape in general have proven to be particularly suitable for this purpose. In other embodiments a single hull may also serve as the only component that partially encloses the core .

A soap therefore provides an extremely convenient and powerful user input device with many benefits. Due to the softness and cushioning inherently provided by the layers around the core the soap is durable and rugged. It is self contained a user can use it with one hand in midair without having to confine its use to an external reference surface such as a mousepad and the user can easily stash the soap anywhere such as a pocket and take it anywhere without having to worry about disconnecting or reconnecting any wired connections. depicts this advanced ease of use in context with two users relaxing on a couch while using their soaps to play a computer game on a wall mounted monitor across the room such as monitor of .

The soap enables the user to use the full dexterity available of manipulating an object between one s thumb and other fingers a more natural ergonomic and precise manner of manipulating an object than is provided by traditional user input devices. In addition a soap is pleasing to use. It has been found to be fun and relaxing to manipulate in one s hand for its own sake analogous to a stress ball aside from any usage as a computing input device. The outer hull of a soap may also have any of a wide variety of textures that are pleasing to the touch including textures that are cottony downy fleecy fluffy furry fuzzy satiny silky velvety or woolly for example. The flexibility and softness of first hull and second hull and the viscosity of lubricant along with any other cushioning or mechanical factors introduced may also be selected to maximize the tactile enjoyment of a soap . A soap therefore provides utility as a recreational hand massage and stress relief device.

The outer hull of a soap may also be removable and interchangeable so that a user can vary between different outer hulls with a variety of different textures. The different outer hulls may also have different decorative styles and patterns and may provide interest as collectible items as advertising marketing or promotional items or as status symbols analogous to cell phone covers.

In some of the illustrative embodiments discussed above soap includes a liquid layer of lubricant between an inner first hull and a second hull that provide a liquid proof seal to ensure that the lubricant remains isolated from the core and from the exterior of soap . Power component is included with core in the illustrative embodiment of . In one illustrative embodiment a wired power connection may be included between power component and the exterior of soap that runs through a protected duct through lubricant for recharging power component . In other embodiment power component may be optimized to have an expected lifetime similar to that of the soap as a whole so that power component does not need recharging during the expected operating lifetime of a single soap . In yet another illustrative embodiment power component includes an inductive charging mechanism configuring it to receive power by inductive charging so that its power reservoir may be recharged without a direct connection. A soap may then periodically be deposited onto an inductive recharging cradle which recharges power component .

Because of its axial symmetry in the embodiment of soap may have different orientations relative to its pointer position control consistent with the same outward appearance i.e. a user first picking up a soap may not know whether its core is oriented forward or backward and the pointer position control may have a mirror image response depending on which way is which on the soap . The orientation of the soap relative to its pointer positioning control may be discovered with the briefest initial functional usage of the soap and a user may then flip the soap around to use in the orientation desired by the user. In one illustrative embodiment the need for even this brief feedback is eliminated by including an orientation sensor such as a tilt sensor within soap and automatically reprocessing its position signals depending on the orientation indicated by its orientation sensor.

Various embodiments may run on or be associated with a wide variety of hardware and computing environment elements and systems. A computer readable medium may include computer executable instructions that configure a computer to run applications perform methods and provide systems associated with different embodiments. Some illustrative features of exemplary embodiments such as are described above may be executed on computing devices such as computer or mobile computing device such as depicted in .

Embodiments are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with various embodiments include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers telephony systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Embodiments may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Various embodiments may be implemented as instructions that are executable by a computing device which can be embodied on any form of computer readable media discussed below. Various additional embodiments may be implemented as data structures or databases that may be accessed by various computing devices and that may influence the function of such computing devices. Some embodiments are designed to be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing some embodiments includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard a microphone and a pointing device such as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may be operated in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a hand held device a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Memory is implemented as non volatile electronic memory such as random access memory RAM with a battery back up module not shown such that information stored in memory is not lost when the general power to mobile device is shut down. A portion of memory is illustratively allocated as addressable memory for program execution while another portion of memory is illustratively used for storage such as to simulate storage on a disk drive.

Memory includes an operating system application programs as well as an object store . During operation operating system is illustratively executed by processor from memory . Operating system in one illustrative embodiment is a WINDOWS CE brand operating system commercially available from Microsoft Corporation. Operating system is illustratively designed for mobile devices and implements database features that can be utilized by applications through a set of exposed application programming interfaces and methods. The objects in object store are maintained by applications and operating system at least partially in response to calls to the exposed application programming interfaces and methods.

Communication interface represents numerous devices and technologies that allow mobile device to send and receive information. The devices include wired and wireless modems satellite receivers and broadcast tuners to name a few. Mobile device can also be directly connected to a computer to exchange data therewith. In such cases communication interface can be an infrared transceiver or a serial or parallel communication connection all of which are capable of transmitting streaming information.

Input output components include a variety of input devices such as a touch sensitive screen buttons rollers and a microphone as well as a variety of output devices including an audio generator a vibrating device and a display. The devices listed above are by way of example and need not all be present on mobile device . In addition other input output devices may be attached to or found with mobile device .

Mobile computing system also includes network . Mobile computing device is illustratively in wireless communication with network which may be the Internet a wide area network or a local area network for example by sending and receiving electromagnetic signals of a suitable protocol between communication interface and wireless interface . Wireless interface may be a wireless hub or cellular antenna for example or any other signal interface. Wireless interface in turn provides access via network to a wide array of additional computing resources illustratively represented by computing resources and . Naturally any number of computing devices in any locations may be in communicative connection with network . Computing device is enabled to make use of executable instructions stored on the media of memory component such as executable instructions that enable computing device to receive user input signals via a soap and to enable those signals to control the positioning of a pointer and selection of icons and other graphical objects with the pointer on a monitor displaying a graphical user interface.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

