---

title: Apparatus and methods for code-enhanced messaging
abstract: Apparatus and methods for messaging comprise obtaining a communication message including at least one messaging code, determining an authority-specific action corresponding to each messaging code, and initiating performance of each authority-specific action by execution of a software component. Each authority-specific action may vary depending on a controlling authority associated with the respective software component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08243731&OS=08243731&RS=08243731
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08243731
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060807
---
The described aspects relate to communications networks and more particularly to apparatus and methods for enhancing communications messages exchanged across a communications network.

Communications across networks involve the exchange of communications messages. For example a communications device operating on a wireless communications network may send and or receive a voice call message associated with a telephone call a limited capacity voice service such as the short voice service SVS message developed by Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. a data call message associated with browsing the Internet electronic mail and or a limited capacity data message such as a text message sent via short message service SMS .

In many instances such communications messages are limited to data representing a voice message or a text message input into the sending communications device.

In some aspects a method of messaging comprises obtaining at a first communications device at least a portion of a communications message sent from a second communications device. The portion of the communications message comprises at least one predetermined messaging code input into the second communications device during generation of the portion of the communications message. Further the method comprises determining at least one authority specific action corresponding to the at least one predetermined messaging code. The at least one authority specific action is operable to be generated at least in part by at least one corresponding software component of the first communications device. Also the at least one authority specific action is variable based on a respective controlling authority associated with the respective software component. Additionally the method comprises performing the at least one authority specific action.

In a related aspect at least one processor is configured to perform the above stated actions. In another related aspect a machine readable medium comprises instructions stored thereon including a first set of instructions for performing the above stated obtaining action a second set of instructions for performing the above stated determining action and a third set of instructions for performing the above stated performing action. In yet another related aspect an apparatus comprises means for obtaining means for determining and means performing each of the above stated actions.

In other aspects a communications device comprises a processor and a memory operable to store at least a portion of a messaging module and at least one software component. The communications device further comprises a communications module operable to receive at least a portion of a communications message sent from another communications device. The portion of the communications message comprises at least one predetermined messaging code input into the second communications device during generation of the portion of the communications message. Also the messaging module is executable by the processor to determine at least one authority specific action corresponding to the at least one predetermined messaging code. The at least one authority specific action is operable to be generated at least in part by the at least one software component. Further the at least one authority specific action is variable based on a respective controlling authority associated with the respective software component.

In further alternative aspects a method of messaging comprises generating a communications message comprising at least one predetermined messaging code selected from a plurality of messaging codes each associated with one of a plurality of authority specific actions. The at least one predetermined messaging code is operable to initiate execution of at least one corresponding software component on a communications device receiving the communications message. The at least one corresponding software component is operable to generate each respective one of the plurality of authority specific actions associated with the at least one predetermined messaging code. Also each authority specific action is variable based on a respective one of a plurality of controlling authorities associated with the respective software component. Additionally the method comprises transmitting the communications message to another communications device.

In a related aspect at least one processor is configured to perform the above stated actions. In another related aspect a machine readable medium comprises instructions stored thereon including a first set of instructions for performing the above stated generating action and a second set of instructions for performing the above stated transmitting action. In yet another related aspect an apparatus comprises means for generating and means for transmitting each of the above stated actions.

In still other aspects a communications device comprises a processor and a memory comprising a messaging module executable by the processor and operable to generate a communications message comprising at least one predetermined messaging code selected from a plurality of messaging codes each associated with one of a plurality of authority specific actions. The at least one predetermined messaging code is operable to initiate execution of at least one corresponding software component on a communications device receiving the communications message. Further the at least one corresponding software component is operable to generate each respective one of the plurality of authority specific actions associated with the at least one predetermined messaging code. Also each authority specific action is variable based on a respective one of a plurality of controlling authorities associated with the respective software component. The communications device further comprises a communications module operable to transmit the communications message to another communications device.

The apparatus and methods described herein provide for the use of messaging codes within communications messages. In some aspects the messaging codes initiate software components on the receiving device in response to the communications message. Alternatively or in addition in other aspects the messaging codes may initiate software components on the sending device. In either case the corresponding action performed by the software component although achieving a known general result may be customized and differentiated based on a controlling authority associated with the software component. In one non limiting case for example the apparatus and methods advantageously provide additional value to short message service SMS or text messages due to the limited payload length associated with such services. For example standard SMS messages may range from between about 160 characters and 256 characters. As such in some aspects the apparatus and methods described herein provide an efficient and compact mechanism for adding additional information and functionality to text messages having limited capacity. The abbreviated code based messaging language described herein improves the efficiency in which messages are exchanged for example by initiating at least one of a plurality of potential responses to the message on the receiving communication device. Further the apparatus and methods described herein provide this improved efficiency within the existing messaging framework without requiring network modifications thereby providing a simplistic and easily adopted solution. Thus the present apparatus and methods operate to enhance communications messaging between two or more devices.

Referring to aspects of an enhanced messaging system comprise a first communications device operable to transmit a communications message to a second communications device and or across a communications network . In some aspects communications message may include at least a messaging code operable to enhance communications message . For example messaging code may be selected from a plurality of predetermined messaging codes by a user of first communications device during generation of communications message . Further in some aspects the plurality of predetermined messaging codes may be standardized previously known codes. Each of the plurality of predetermined messaging codes may be associated with one of a corresponding plurality of authority specific actions . Further each of the plurality of authority specific actions may be operable to be generated at least in part by a corresponding one of a plurality of software components on second communications device and or . For example each of the plurality of authority specific actions may initiate a predetermined behavior and or functionality of the corresponding software component. Additionally each of the plurality of software components may be associated with a controlling authority which is an entity that dictates the behavior and or functionality of the corresponding authority specific action. As such each of the plurality of authority specific actions may vary depending on the corresponding one of a plurality of controlling authorities associated with the respective software component.

Second communication device and or comprises a messaging module operable to receive at least in part communications message . Messaging module includes a code detector operable to identify the selected messaging code included in communications message . Further code detector is operable to determine the corresponding one of the plurality of authority specific actions and initiate operation of the corresponding authority specific action by execution of the respective one of the plurality of software components on second communication device and or .

In some aspects for example each of the plurality of authority specific actions may be operable to automate at least partially a reply communications message sent back to first communication device based on messaging code and or a payload of communications message as is discussed below in more detail. In other aspects each of the plurality of authority specific actions may be operable to automate at least partially an operation occurring solely on second communications device and or and or between second communications device and or and another communication device.

Further it should be noted that in some aspects the authority specific action corresponding to messaging code may be carried out only after receiving an approval input by a user of second communication device and or . In other aspects however the authority specific action may not require user approval and thus may be carried out automatically.

Additionally or in the alternative in some aspects messaging code may operate to initiate a corresponding one of a plurality of authority specific actions on the sending device i.e. first communication device . In the same manner as discussed above the authority specific action is executed by a respective one of a plurality of software components on first communications device and such action may vary depending on the one of the plurality of controlling authorities associated with the respective software component.

In one non limiting case for example first communication device may send communication message to second communication device and or with messaging code representing a lunch invitation and including a payload indicating the proposed meeting time and or place. Upon receiving communication message messaging module of second communication device and or executes code detector which identifies messaging code and associates it with one of the plurality of authority specific actions relating to responding to a meeting invitation. Further the respective authority specific action is further associated with one of the plurality of software components corresponding to one of the plurality of controlling authorities . In this example controlling authorities may include competing software developers and the developer for the respective software component on device and or has differentiated their product by directing the respective authority specific action to automatically generate a pop up window with yes no and edit selections in response to receiving communication message . In this example the user of device and or can select yes to accept the invitation no to decline the invitation or edit to suggest a change to the proposed time and or place. Further the developer in this case has differentiated the respective software component by programming it upon receipt of a yes or edit input to automatically establish a calendar entry and a reminder in an associated calendaring software component on device and or . Additionally or in the alternative upon sending communication message a messaging module on first communication device comparable to module may operate to detect messaging code and reference and execute a corresponding authority specific action. In this case the respective controlling authority associated with the respective software component operable to carry out the action on first communication device may have differentiated their product by programming an operation to automatically set a timer to wait a predetermined and or selectable amount of time to receive a reply message from second communication device and or . In this example upon the expiry of the timer the respective controlling authority associated with the respective software component may have differentiated their product by programming an operation to generate a reminder that allows the user the option to resend the invitation or wait another predetermined and or selectable amount of time. It should be understood that this is but one of a plurality of possible use cases for the present system .

Thus system provides apparatus and methods for enhancing the content of communications message by including messaging code input by the sending user operable to initiate one of a plurality of authority specific actions . In some aspects the respective action is initiated on the receiving communications device such as second communication device and or . Alternatively or in addition in other aspects another authority specific action may be initiated on the sending device i.e. first communication device upon transmitting communication message . Further the behavior and or functionality associated with the corresponding authority specific action may vary from one communication device to another communication device depending on the corresponding one of the plurality of controlling authorities associated with the respective communication device or associated with the one of the plurality of software components operable to carry out the respective authority specific action. Therefore system adds value to the user experience in exchanging communications messages by automatically initiating behavior and or functionality responsive to the communications message based on the respective messaging code and further provides service differentiation by enabling a variation in the initiated behavior and or functionality based on the associated controlling authority.

According to some aspects first communication device and second communication device and or may comprise any type of computerized communication device. For example as illustrated in first communication device and second communication device may comprise a mobile communication device such as a wireless and or cellular telephone while second communication device may comprises a fixed communication device such as a network device a server a computer workstation etc. It should be understood that communication devices and or are not limited to the illustrated devices but may further include a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a two way text pager a portable computer having a wired or wireless communication portal and any type of computer platform having a wired and or wireless communications portal. Further second communication device and or can be a remote slave or other similar device such as remote sensors remote servers diagnostic tools data relays and the like which does not have an end user thereof but which simply communicates data across a wireless or wired network. In alternate aspects first communication device and or second communication device and or may be a wired communication device such as a landline telephone personal computer set top box or the like. Additionally it should be noted that any combination of any number of first communication device and or second communication device and or may be utilized in system . Therefore the present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of wired or wireless device or computer module including a wired or wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

Additionally referring to which for simplicity references second communication device first communication device and or second communication device and or may include an input mechanism operable to generate or receive an input into the device and an output mechanism operable to generate and or present information for consumption by the user of the device. For example input mechanism may include at least one mechanism such as a keypad and or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone in association with a voice recognition module etc. In certain aspects input mechanism may provide for user input of at least a portion of communications message including the respective messaging code . Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. Output mechanism may generate a graphical user interface a sound a feeling such as a vibration etc. and such outputs may be associated for example with the transmission and or receipt of communications message .

Further communication device and or and or may include a computer platform operable to execute applications to provide functionality to the device and which may further interact with input mechanism and output mechanism . Computer platform may include a memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory portions such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include active memory and storage memory including an electronic file system and any secondary and or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape soft and or hard disk and removable memory components.

Further computer platform may also include a processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. In some aspects such as when communication device comprises a cellular telephone processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident software components such as voice call data call and media related applications and messaging module in memory . API may be a runtime environment executing on the respective communication device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Additionally processor may include various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of communication device and or and or and the operability of the communication device on communications network . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices as well as within and or among components of communication device and or and or . In one aspect such as in a cellular telephone processor may include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management diagnostic digital signal processor vocoder messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position determination position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM universal subscriber identity module subscriber identity module voice services graphics USB universal serial bus multimedia such as MPEG Moving Picture Experts Group protocol multimedia GPRS General Packet Radio Service short message service SMS short voice service SVS web browser etc. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform .

Computer platform may further include a communications module which enables communications among the various components of communication device and or and or as well as being operable to exchange communications message between the device and communications network . Communications module may be embodied in hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof and may further include all protocols for use in intra device and inter device communications. Further communications module is operable to transmit and or receive information such as communications message in accordance with the apparatus and methods described herein.

Additionally referring to memory may be operable to store all or at least a portion of communications message . Communications message may be based on any type of call or communication exchange including but not limited to one or any combination of a voice call a data call a limited capacity call having a maximum allowable payload such as a short message service SMS call or text message and or a short voice service SVS call or voice message and a multimedia message. Further communication message may be based on any type of communication protocol and or technology see list below with respect to communication network . In some aspects communications message may include a header a payload a trailer and at least one selected messaging code . It should be noted that communications message may comprise a plurality of messaging codes . Header may mark the beginning of the data packet that comprises communications message and may further provide protocol information identifying the type of message i.e. voice data etc. origination address information destination address information synchronization information and sequence information. Payload comprises the body or data transported by communications message which may include for example the data bytes representing voice in a voice call or representing text in a data call. Trailer may mark the end of communications message and may further include error checking information.

One or more selected messaging codes may comprise and or may be appended to any portion of communications message . For example in some aspects selected messaging code may comprise or may be appended to header such as the destination phone number or a code appended to the destination phone number which may be converted into destination address information such as an Internet Protocol IP address or a subscriber identification SID number. In other aspects for example selected messaging code may comprise or may be input along with payload which may be any type of characters such as alphabetic numerical and or symbol characters e.g. the message portion of a text message. Similarly in other aspects for example selected messaging code may comprise or may be input along with trailer . Selected messaging code may be originally input into the sending communication device as alphabetic and or numerical characters symbols etc.

Additionally in some optional aspects communications message may further comprise one or more code indicators operable to indicate the presence of a corresponding one or more selected messaging codes within communications message . For example code indicator may be originally input into the respective communication device as alphabetic and or numerical characters symbols etc.

As noted above selected messaging code may be chosen from a plurality of messaging codes which in some aspects may be a standardized set of codes which define a messaging code language. For example in some aspects the vocabulary of the messaging code language may comprise a predetermined number of characters i.e. the messaging code and in some aspects may optionally include one or more code indicators at any one or more positions before after or within the messaging code. In one non limiting case for example the standard messaging code vocabulary may have a format including a maximum of 5 characters such as in the format NNNN where comprises code indicator where NNNN comprises the selected messaging code and where N denotes a single letter of the alphabet from A to Z. It should be noted that this is but one of many potential schemes for the plurality of messaging codes and code indicator .

In other aspects the messaging code language may be extensible such that any number of characters may be used for the messaging code. In some optional aspects one or some combination of code indicators may signal one or any combination of the presence of a messaging code the beginning of the messaging code and the end of the messaging code where different code indicators may identify the presence beginning and or end of the messaging code. In one non limiting case for example the extensible messaging code language may have a format such as M where comprises a first type of code indicator identifying the existence of one of the plurality of messaging codes where comprises a second type of code indicator identifying the beginning of the messaging code where M comprise any number of alphabetic numeric and or symbolic characters comprising the messaging code and where comprises a third type of code indicator identifying the end of the messaging code.

Further depending on the given communication protocol selected messaging code and or code indicator may be re formatted or converted into other data such as a binary code representative of the originally entered selected messaging code and or code indicator as part of the generation of communications message .

Additionally referring to messaging module may be stored in and executed from memory . Messaging module may comprise one or any combination of hardware software firmware data and executable instructions operable to provide the respective communication device and or and or with the ability to exchange communications messages with other devices on communications network . For example messaging module may be operable to initiate and or perform one or any combination of originating transmitting receiving processing and or displaying or presenting the payload of communications message . Further messaging module may be operable to enable the generation and transmission and or receipt and presentation of any type of communications message . For example messaging module may support any message and or call type including but not limited to one or any combination of a voice call a data call a limited capacity call having a maximum allowable payload such as a short message service call or text message and or a short voice service call or voice message and a multimedia message.

As noted above messaging module is operable to execute code detector . Code detector may comprise one or any combination of hardware software firmware data and executable instructions operable to access and parse communications message to detect selected messaging code . Further code detector may be operable to access a database of the plurality of predetermined messaging codes in order to verify that selected messaging code matches with one of the plurality of messaging codes which are associated with one of the plurality of authority specific actions . In some aspects for example code detector may comprise code recognition logic operable to parse communications message and identify one or more selected messaging codes . Optionally in some aspects code detector may further include code indicator recognition logic operable to parse communications message and identify one or more code indicators . Further in some aspects code detector may include action determination logic operable to recognize a meaning of the one or more selected messaging codes and identify a corresponding one or more of the plurality of authority specific actions to be initiated based on receipt of the respective messaging code .

For example in some aspects code detector may access a messaging code index which cross references each of the plurality of messaging codes with a respective one of a plurality of authority specific action identifiers IDs which are further referenced to a respective one of a plurality of software component identifiers IDs . In turn each of the plurality of authority specific action IDs corresponds to one of the plurality of authority specific actions . Similarly in turn each of the plurality of software component IDs corresponds to a respective one of the plurality of software components .

Thus based on parsing communications message code detector is operable to identify one or more selected messaging codes determine their meaning and corresponding one or more of the plurality of authority specific actions and initiate execution of the corresponding one or more software components to carry out the respective authority specific action.

Referring to in some aspects memory may further store user interface module operable to allow the device user to interface with messaging module any of the plurality of software components and any other component of the respective communication device and or and or generating a user output and or requiring a user input. User interface module may comprise one or any combination of hardware software firmware data and executable instructions operable to perform these functions. For example in some aspects user interface module may comprise presentation logic operable to interface between output mechanism and messaging module and or any of the plurality of software components in order to present outputs such as a graphical menu a sound payload of communications message etc. to the user of the respective device and in order to prompt the user to enter inputs such as selected messaging code code indicator user approvals etc. Further for example in generation of communications message user interface module may operate to provide the user with a menu or list of the plurality of messaging codes as well as their meanings and general corresponding actions to facilitate their use in the communication exchange.

Additionally memory may be operable to store one or any combination of the plurality of software components . The plurality of software components may comprise various applications operable to provide any functionality to the respective communication device and or and or . For example the plurality of software components may include but are not limited to one or more of any combination of applications such as a user interface application a communications related application such as a voice call application a short voice service application a data call application such as a web browser e mail SMS or text messaging a group communication or push to talk application instant messaging a position location application including one or any combination of a satellite based and network based system such as a Global Positioning System GPS application an assisted GPS A GPS system such as the gpsOne solution from Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. and a mobile assisted or hybrid mobile assisted A GPS application a media related application such as a photograph application a video application such as video players and or multicast broadcast and or unicast applications including the MediaFLO solution available from Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. information serving applications content serving applications personal information management applications such as a contact list a calendar an appointment list a task list gaming applications emergency related applications applets and any other application operable on a communication device and or a network device.

Each of the plurality of software components may be under the control of at least one of the plurality of controlling authorities . The plurality of controlling authorities may include but are not limited to any combination of a network carrier associated with providing communication services to the respective communication device and or and or a content provider a content retailer a developer of the respective software component a manufacturer of the respective communication device a manufacturer of a component such as the processor of the respective communication device a government having authority in the region within which the respective communication device operates and the user of the respective communication device.

The plurality of authority specific actions may correspond to a respective one of a plurality of behaviors and or functionalities of any single one or any combination of the plurality of software components . In some aspects for example at least one of the plurality of authority specific actions comprises initiating a response from second communications device and or to first communication device based on the receipt of communications message . Further the appropriate one or more authority specific actions i.e. the response is determined based on the one or more messaging codes in communications message and may vary depending on some other component of communications message such as header payload trailer and or code indicator . For example in one non limiting case selected messaging code may denote the corresponding one of the plurality of authority specific actions i.e. the response while payload may define a parameter and or input data associated with carrying out the respective action. In some aspects the operation of the respective authority specific action may be directed to the device originating communications message while in other aspects the operation may be directed to another communication device and or the action may occur only with respect to some component of the receiving communication device.

Further since the corresponding one of the plurality of software components is controlled by one of the plurality of controlling authorities different controlling authorities may define different actions to correspond to the same one of the plurality of messaging codes . Each messaging code is associated with a general meaning and hence a general type of corresponding authority specific action. The exact implementation and the details of each action however have a degree of allowable variability and thus may be customized within each respective software component by the associated controlling authority. In one non limiting case for example text messaging software from a first vendor may automatically initiate a voice call to the originator of the text message when receiving a messaging code meaning emergency while text messaging software from a second vendor upon receiving the same messaging code may automatically initiate a text message which forwards the received text message to one or more other destinations identified by a friends network such as may be indicated in a personal information manager to denote groups of contacts who know each other. As such the respective one of the plurality of authority specific actions may be customized by each respective one of the plurality of controlling authorities thereby providing different responses on communication devices having software components associated with different controlling authorities.

Thus in some aspects of system a messaging code language may be provided that utilizes a known plurality of messaging codes having known meanings and each corresponding generally to a known one of a plurality of actions which may be customized from one software component to another software component by an associated one of a plurality of controlling authorities . For example the plurality of messaging codes and their meanings may be published in the public domain and the action they initiate may be generally known although the exact implementation of the given action may vary depending on the controlling authority associated with the given software component on the receiving communication device.

Referring to Table 1 in one non limiting case an example is given for at least a portion of a standardized messaging code language the meaning of the respective messaging code and an example of a corresponding authority specific action. The standardized messaging code language may include the Wireless Messaging Code Language technology and or the Communications Messaging Code Language technology developed by Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. It should be understood that many other possible messaging code languages meanings and or corresponding actions may be utilized.

Referring back to communications network may comprise any data and or voice communications network. For example communications network may comprise all or some portion of any one or any combination of a wired or wireless telephone network a terrestrial telephone network a satellite telephone network an

infrared network such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA based network a short range wireless network a Bluetooth technology network a ZigBee protocol network an ultra wide band UWB protocol network a home radio frequency HomeRF network a shared wireless access protocol SWAP network a wideband network such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA network a wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance network and a 802.xx network a packet data network a data network an Internet Protocol IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS network a public switched telephone network a public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet a private communications network a multicast network such as a Forward Link Only FLO network including the MediaFLO System available from Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. a digital video broadcasting DVB network such as DVB S for satellite DVB C for cable DVB T for terrestrial television DVB H for terrestrial television for handhelds and a land mobile radio network.

Further examples of telephone networks that may be included in some aspects of communications network include at least a portion of one or any combination of analog and digital networks technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS advanced mobile phone service AMPS time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA global system for mobile communications GSM single carrier 1X radio transmission technology RTT evolution data only EV DO technology general packet radio service GPRS enhanced data GSM environment EDGE high speed downlink data packet access HSPDA analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in at least one of a wireless communications network and a data communications network.

Referring to in operation one non limiting case of a method for enhanced messaging at a sending communication device comprises launching a messaging module Block . For example in one non limiting case referring to communication device may launch messaging module which is stored in memory and which is executable by processor .

The method may further include generating a communications message including a selected messaging code Block . For example in one non limiting case referring to communication device may compose communications message having messaging code . In some aspects user interface module may generate one or more menus to guide the user of device through the process of generating communications message . Further in some aspects messaging module and or user interface module may provide the user of device with a list of available messaging codes as well as the meaning and or corresponding action from which the user may select and thereby enter one or more messaging codes into communications message . Alternatively the user may enter messaging code into device without selecting a presented code through input mechanism . In some other alternative aspects at least one code indicator may be included in communications message in combination with at least one messaging code .

Additionally the method may include transmitting the communications message with the messaging code to another communication device Block . For example in one non limiting case referring to messaging module may forward communications message to communications module which forwards communications message to communications network . It should be noted that in some aspects messaging module may forward portions of communications message to communications module and communications module may construct communications message based on the communication protocol in use by device and then transmit communications message to communication network . In transmitting communications message device initiates the operation of at least one of a plurality of authority specific actions on the receiving device such as second communication device and or based on each respective one of the plurality of messaging codes included within communications message thereby enhancing communications message as well in some instances enhancing the exchange of future communications messages.

Optionally the method may further include initiating an authority specific action by execution of a corresponding software component where the respective action varies depending on the controlling authority associated with the software component Block . In one non limiting case for example first communication device includes a messaging module having a code detector operable to recognize messaging code of communication message and reference the code to one of a plurality of predetermined authority specific actions to occur on first communication device . In particular the corresponding authority specific action is carried out by execution of a corresponding software component on first communication device and the action varies depending on the respective one of the plurality of controlling authorities associated with the given software component.

Optionally the method may further include receiving another communications message based on at least the messaging code in the transmitted communications message Block . For example in one non limiting case this received communications message may be a response to communications message such as a return voice call a return text message fetched information from a server device based on the code and or payload of communications message etc.

Referring to in operation one non limiting case of a method for enhanced messaging at a receiving communication device comprises obtaining a communications message having at least one messaging code Block . For example in one non limiting case referring to communication device and or is in communication with communications network and receives communications message sent by communications device . In this case communications message may include at least one selected messaging code entered by the user of device into device during the process of generating communications message . Further messaging module may be executable by communication device and or to receive or access at least some portion of communications message .

Further the method may include identifying the at least one messaging code associated with the communications message Block . For example in one non limiting case referring to and messaging module may execute code detector to determine the existence of selected messaging code within communications message . For example code detector may determine if any portion of communications message matches any of the plurality of messaging codes known by code detector . Further in some aspects code detector may execute code recognition logic which may be operable to parse communications message and identify one or more messaging codes. Additionally in some alternate aspects code detector may identify code indicator in communications message thereby identifying that communications message includes a messaging code and thereby initiating the search and recognition of one or more messaging codes .

Further the method may include determining an authority specific action corresponding to the at least one message code Block . For example in one non limiting case referring to and after matching selected messaging code to one of the plurality of messaging codes code detector may associate selected messaging code with a predetermined one of the plurality of authority specific actions . Each of the plurality of authority specific actions is in turn associated with one of a plurality of software components . As such any one of a plurality of controlling authorities managing and or providing the respective one of the plurality of software components has the ability to control the corresponding authority specific action. Thus the respective authority specific action corresponding to a given messaging code may vary depending on the associated controlling authority.

Further for example in some aspects code detector may execute action determination logic to determine the authority specific action corresponding to a detected messaging code. In some aspects messaging module may include messaging code index to facilitate matching received messaging codes to known codes and to further facilitate matching messaging codes to authority specific actions and software components.

The method may further include performing the authority specific action based on the messaging code Block . In particular the performance of the action is in accordance with the action defined by the respective controlling authority associated with the software component operable to perform the designated action. For example in one non limiting case referring to messaging module may initiate the execution of a selected one of the plurality of software components where the selected software component is operable to carry out the identified authority specific action corresponding to selected messaging code .

Thus system enhances messaging by providing communications message having at least one messaging code which can be input at a sending device and which initiate a responsive authority specific action on a receiving device. As such system improves the efficiency of message exchange by providing transport of additional information in a compact and simple manner and by automatically initiating responsive actions based on the communications message and or the messaging code.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of instructions on a machine readable medium and or non transitory computer readable medium.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

