---

title: Systems with bore-launched projectiles
abstract: Systems for launching one or more projectiles from a bore are provided. An exemplary system incorporates a shell, a projectile, an explosive charge and a wad. The shell includes a base and a casing, with the casing defining an interior. The projectile is located within the interior and is configured to be expelled from the shell casing. The explosive charge is located within the interior and is configured to expel the projectile from the casing. The wad is located within the interior and is configured to expel the projectile from the casing in response to detonation of the explosive charge. The wad includes petals and a petal stop, with the petals being movable between a closed position, in which free ends of the petals are arranged proximate to each other such that the petals at least partially surround the projectile, and an open position, in which the free ends of the petals are displaced from each other, the petal stop being configured to limit movement of the petals beyond the open position. Responsive to being expelled from a bore by detonation of the explosive charge, the petals move from the closed position to the open position, thereby retarding the wad and releasing the projectile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07415929&OS=07415929&RS=07415929
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07415929
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060201
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

A typical shotgun shell is formed of several basic components including a shell base a shell casing primer an explosive charge a wad and one or more projectiles usually shot. The wad surrounds the shot with the wad and shot being located within an interior that is defined by the shell casing. The explosive charge is located between the wad and the shell base with the primer being seated in the shell base.

The primer is used to ignite the explosive charge. Gas formed by the explosive charge pressurizes the interior of the shell casing and forces the wad and encased shot out of the shell casing and away from the shell base. As the wad and shot enter the bore of the shotgun in which the shotgun shell is loaded the wad swells to seal against the inner wall of the bore. The pressure of the gasses continues to push the wad and encased shot through the bore until the wad and shot are expelled from the muzzle of the shotgun. As the wad exits the muzzle segmented leaves or petals of the wad bend backward toward the muzzle due to air resistance. This causes a decrease in the forward motion of the wad and enables the shot to be released. The shot continues moving in a manner dictated by the force imparted to the shot by the wad and by any shape or constriction of the muzzle.

Systems for launching a projectile from a bore are provided. An exemplary embodiment of such a system incorporates a shell a projectile an explosive charge and a wad. The shell includes a base and a casing with the casing defining an interior. The projectile is located within the interior and is configured to be expelled from the shell casing. The explosive charge is located within the interior and is configured to expel the projectile from the casing. The wad is located within the interior and is configured to expel the projectile from the casing in response to detonation of the explosive charge. The wad includes petals and a petal stop with the petals being movable between a closed position in which free ends of the petals are arranged proximate to each other such that the petals at least partially surround the projectile and an open position in which the free ends of the petals are displaced from each other the petal stop being configured to limit movement of the petals beyond the open position. Responsive to being expelled from a bore by detonation of the explosive charge the petals move from the closed position to the open position thereby retarding the wad and releasing the projectile.

Another exemplary embodiment of such a system incorporates a shell one or more projectiles an explosive charge a wad and a projectile director. The shell defines an interior. The projectile s is are located within the interior and is are configured to be expelled from the shell. The wad is located within the interior and is configured to expel the projectile s from the shell. The projectile director is located within the interior and includes an interior surface that is configured to alter a dispersal pattern of the projectile s as the projectile s is are being separated from the wad in response to expulsion of the wad and the projectile s from the bore.

Still another exemplary embodiment is a close quarters defensive or offensive shotgun shell round which configures the shot pattern to enhance target lethality zones and minimize collateral damage. The shell is adaptable to orient the shot pattern in a multitude of various patterns depending on the desired effect on the target. The round has the ability to spread and or configure the shot pattern very quickly after exiting the muzzle of the delivery weapon or system allowing wide concentrated or configured dispersion of the shot very quickly and at very close ranges. The dispersion of the shot can be controlled or configured into a specific pattern eliminating stray and or wasted projectiles which miss the intended target or hit unintended targets.

Other systems methods features and or advantages will be or may become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and or advantages be included within this description and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Systems with bore launched projectiles are provided. Such systems include shotguns as well as grenade launchers firearms rifles and artillery pieces for example. As will be described in detail each of these systems launches a projectile s that is initially carried within a shell. Such a shell uses a wad for expelling the projectile s with the wad including petals. Specifically the petals of such a wad encase the projectile s during travel through a bore then open to release the projectile s when the wad is expelled from the bore. Notably such a wad includes a petal stop that is configured to limit movement of the petals beyond the open position thereby significantly enhancing the stopping effect of the wad. In some embodiments the petals are configured to cause rotation of the wad and projectile s . Additionally or alternatively embodiments can include a projectile director that is configured to alter the dispersal pattern of the projectile s .

Referring now the drawings is a schematic cross sectional view of an embodiment of a shell that includes bore launched projectiles with being a schematic view along section line of . In the embodiment shown in shell is configured as a shotgun shell that includes a shell base and shell casing . Shell base and shell casing define an interior . An explosive or very rapidly burning charge is located within the interior adjacent to the shell base with the shell base seating a primer that is used to ignite the explosive charge. A wad also is located within the interior . The wad includes a base petals and webbing with the wad surrounding projectiles . In this embodiment the projectiles are shot. Note that the wad also surrounds a projectile director .

Projectile director is configured to control the dispersion pattern of the projectiles . In this regard projectile director includes an inner surface that in this embodiment is shaped as a funnel. Specifically the inner surface defines an entrance end that is located adjacent to the projectiles and an exit that is located at the distal end of the shell casing . As is most readily apparent in the exit end exhibits an elongated major axis that is generally horizontal so as to form an elongated slot that has a cross sectional area that is smaller than that of the entrance end.

The shape of the projectile director can be configured in a multitude of different orientations and configurations to direct the projectiles in specific patterns or to provide dynamic motion to the projectiles. The projectiles can be confined into a very concise pattern or dispersed into a very broad pattern. For example the projectiles can be conformed into a vertical line pattern and with rapid dispersion can attain a floor to ceiling span shortly after the wad exits the muzzle of the delivery device or can be configured into a horizontal spread as in the configuration shown in . Dynamic motion can be imparted to the projectiles as they pass over and through various channels ramps grooves or other means incorporated in the projectile director to direct and position the projectiles .

The projectiles may be any type or shape of ammunition desired such as steel shot lead shot sintered shot plastic shot rubber shot etc. The type of projectiles used depends on the application. In addition the orientation of the projectiles in the wad can be varied as desired. Sintered shot is especially effective in reducing the likelihood of collateral damage.

As shown schematically in the projectiles can be fired at a target by loading the shell into the chamber of a delivery device such as a shotgun the barrel and associated bore being shown in and igniting the primer at time t 1 . Ignition of the primer in turn ignites the explosive charge which generates gas as it rapidly combusts. Gas pressure produced by the explosive charge forces the wad projectiles and projectile director through the bore at t 2 until the wad projectiles and projectile director are expelled from the muzzle of the barrel .

Air resistance causes the petals of the wad to move rapidly from their closed position to an open position shown at t 3 . The open position is controlled by flexible webbing that connects the petals together. The webbing dramatically increases the drag of the wad thereby rapidly decelerating or braking the wad. As is also apparent in the projectile director is attached to the wad such as via tethers to rapidly decelerate the projectile director. Note the tethers also limit motion of the petals beyond the open position to enhance braking of the wad .

The wad can also take advantage of different methods to promote expansion and deployment of the petals to further aid the rapid reduction of forward motion. A first method involves the process used to mold the wad. Instead of molding the petals axially in line with the center axis of the wad the petals can be molded in the open position and therefore would be under tension to open when in the shell or muzzle. Another method involves inserting radial expanding springs compressed inside the wad which expand when the wad leaves the muzzle thereby pushing open the petals of the wad.

Other variations of the wad can be implemented. In one variation the petals of the wad are angled to spin one or more projectiles . The payload of such projectiles may include but is not limited to chemicals tear gas malodorants etc. In another variation the opening of the wad petals can be delayed for dispersion of the projectiles at a greater distance or to pass the projectiles through a window or other opening.

Returning to continued forward motion of the projectiles after the braking of the wad causes the projectiles to be expelled from the wad in a manner dictated by the configuration of the projectile director . In the example embodiment of since the projectile director is configured as a funnel with an exit end being elongated horizontally the projectiles disperse in a horizontally elongated pattern see pattern at t 4 .

As shown in one or more features of the round e.g. shell can be used to control and identify the projectile dispersal pattern. In the example of shell includes indicia that correspond to a horizontal dispersal pattern. Specifically shell base includes a colored line that runs generally parallel to the intended dispersal pattern and the shell casing includes an elongated protrusion that runs generally parallel to the intended dispersal pattern. Note that a corresponding elongated protrusion not shown also can be included on the other side of the shell casing. Such protrusions can be used to prevent the shell from being inserted into and fired from a weapon that does not have corresponding indentations in the bore thus providing a level of security restricting the use of shells having a controlled projectile dispersal pattern. Furthermore elongated indentations not shown could be used in place of the elongated protrusions. As is also shown in shell includes notches located along the edge of shell base . Other indicators such as raised bars circles rectangles and the like may be placed at the end of the round to convey the intent of the projectile pattern and can be especially designed for tactile identification in night or other low light conditions.

In addition or in exception to the indicia previously described with respect to the embodiment of a round can include timing features that only permit loading of the round into a magazine weapon in a particular orientation. In the embodiment of a shell has a shell base that includes opposing parallel alignment surfaces that mate with alignment surfaces of a shell magazine . In operation surfaces must align with surfaces for the shell to be loaded into the magazine. Thus the orientation of the shell within the magazine is known to the user and the characteristics of the projectile dispersal pattern can be controlled.

