---

title: Vehicle control interface
abstract: Briefly, in accordance with one or more embodiments, one or more vehicle system nay be transferred via a control unit and/or an order confirmation may be communicated via the control unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07818097&OS=07818097&RS=07818097
owner: 
number: 07818097
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20060811
---
Automobiles occasionally may have certain remote control features such as seat settings media settings driving directions and maintenance alerts. Currently some models exist that carry out some of these functions in various forms. Currently for families with cars driven by multiple drivers or for the rental car industry these preordained settings are often locked in place or cumbersome and time consuming to adjust.

Reference is made in the following detailed description to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof wherein like numerals may designate like parts throughout to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. It will be appreciated that for simplicity and or clarity of illustration elements illustrated in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the claimed subject matter. It should also be noted that directions and references for example up down top bottom and so on may be used to facilitate the discussion of the drawings and are not intended to restrict the application of the claimed subject matter. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the claimed subject matter defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuits have not been described in detail.

Some portions of the detailed description that follow are presented in terms of algorithms programs and or symbolic representations of operations on data bits or binary digital signals within a computer memory for example. These algorithmic descriptions and or representations may include techniques used in the data processing arts to transfer the arrangement of a computer system and or other information handling system to operate according to such programs algorithms and or symbolic representations of operations.

A program and or process generally may be considered to be a self consistent sequence of acts and or operations leading to a desired result. These include physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical and or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and or otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers and or the like. It should be understood however that all of these and or similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities.

Embodiments claimed may include one or more apparatuses for performing the operations herein. These apparatuses may be specially constructed for the desired purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated and or reconfigured by a program stored in the device. Such a program may be stored on a storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs electrically programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable and or programmable read only memories EEPROMs flash memory magnetic and or optical cards and or any other type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and or capable of being coupled to a system bus for a computing device and or other information handling system.

The processes and or displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computing device and or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the desired method. The desired structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition embodiments are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings described herein.

Embodiments claimed may include software capable of performing one or more of the operations described herein. Although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect one embodiment may be in hardware such as implemented to operate on a device or combination of devices whereas another embodiment may be in software. Likewise an embodiment may be implemented in firmware or as any combination of hardware software and or firmware for example. Likewise although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect one embodiment may comprise one or more articles such as a storage medium or storage media. This storage media such as one or more CD ROMs and or disks for example may have stored thereon instructions that when executed by a system such as a computer system computing platform or other system for example may result in an embodiment of a method in accordance with the claimed subject matter being executed for example.

In the following description and or claims the term and or may mean and it may mean of it may mean exclusive or it may mean one it may mean some but not all it may mean neither and or it may mean both although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the claimed subject matter. Thus the appearance of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

Referring to a block diagram illustrates a control unit and vehicle according to one or more embodiments although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect. Control unit and or vehicle may include more and or fewer components than those shown in . However generally conventional components may not be shown for example a battery a bus and so on.

Control unit as shown in may be utilized to tangibly embody a computer program and or graphical user interface by providing hardware components on which the computer program and or graphical user interface may be executed. Such a computer program and or machine readable instructions may be tangibly stored on a computer and or machine readable medium such as a compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD flash memory device hard disk drive HDD and so on. As shown in control unit may be controlled by processor including one or more auxiliary processors not shown . Processor may comprise a central processing unit such as a microprocessor or microcontroller for executing programs performing data manipulations and controlling the tasks of control unit . Auxiliary processors may manage input output perform floating point mathematical operations manage digital signals perform fast execution of signal processing algorithms operate as a back end processor and or a slave type processor subordinate to processor operate as an additional microprocessor and or controller for dual and or multiple processor systems and or operate as a coprocessor and or additional processor. Such auxiliary processors may be discrete processors and or may be arranged in the same package as processor for example in a multicore and or multithreaded processor however the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

Communication with processor may be implemented via a bus not shown for transferring information among the components of control unit . A bus may include a data channel for facilitating information transfer between storage and other peripheral components of control unit . A bus further may provide a set of signals utilized for communication with processor including for example a data bus an address bus and or a control bus. A bus may comprise any bus architecture according to promulgated standards for example industry standard architecture ISA extended industry standard architecture EISA micro channel architecture MCA Video Electronics Standards Association local bus VLB peripheral component interconnect PCI local bus PCI express PCIe hyper transport HT standards promulgated by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE including IEEE 488 general purpose interface bus GPIB IEEE 696 S 100 and so on although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Other components of control unit may include for example memory including one or more auxiliary memories not shown . Memory may provide storage of instructions and data for programs to be executed by processor such as control program for example. Memory may be for example semiconductor based memory such as dynamic random access memory DRAM and or static random access memory SRAM and or the like. Other semi conductor based memory types may include for example synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM Rambus dynamic random access memory RDRAM ferroelectric random access memory FRAM and so on. Alternatively or additionally memory may be for example magnetic based memory such as a magnetic disc memory a magnetic tape memory and or the like an optical based memory such as a compact disc read write memory and or the like a magneto optical based memory such as a memory formed of ferromagnetic material read by a laser and or the like a phase change based memory such as phase change memory PRAM and or the like a holographic based memory such as rewritable holographic storage utilizing the photorefractive effect in crystals and or the like and or a molecular based memory such as polymer based memories and or the like. Auxiliary memories may be utilized to store instructions and or data that are to be loaded into memory before execution. Auxiliary memories may include semiconductor based memory such as read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM and or flash memory and or any block oriented memory similar to EEPROM. Auxiliary memories also may include any type of non semiconductor based memories including but not limited to magnetic tape drum floppy disk hard disk optical laser disk compact disc read only memory CD ROM write once compact disc CD R rewritable compact disc CD RW digital versatile disc read only memory DVD ROM write once DVD DVD R rewritable digital versatile disc DVD RAM and so on. Other varieties of memory devices are contemplated as well.

Control unit further may include a display . Display may comprise a video display adapter having components including for example video memory a buffer and or a graphics engine. Such video memory may be for example video random access memory VRAM synchronous graphics random access memory SGRAM windows random access memory WRAM and or the like. Display may comprise a cathode ray tube CRT type display such as a monitor and or television and or may comprise an alternative type of display technology such as a projection type CRT type display a liquid crystal display LCD projector type display an LCD type display a light emitting diode LED type display a gas and or plasma type display an electroluminescent type display a vacuum fluorescent type display a cathodoluminescent and or field emission type display a plasma addressed liquid crystal PALC type display a high gain emissive display HGED type display and so forth.

Control unit further may include one or more I O devices . I O device may comprise one or more I O devices such as a keyboard mouse trackball touchpad joystick track stick infrared transducers printer modem RF modem bar code reader charge coupled device CCD reader scanner compact disc CD compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disc DVD video capture device TV tuner card touch screen stylus electroacoustic transducer microphone speaker audio amplifier and or the like. For example I O device may comprise a microphone and or a speaker. The microphone may be capable of converting sound waves into an electric current. The speaker may be capable of converting electrical signals into sounds loud enough to be heard. The microphone and or speaker may be capable of converting verbal commands of a user into an electric current to trigger a response or action by control unit .

Control unit further may include an external interface . External interface may comprise one or more controllers and or adapters to prove interface functions between multiple I O devices . For example external interface may comprise a serial port parallel port universal serial bus USB port and IEEE 1394 serial bus port infrared port network adapter printer adapter radio frequency RF communications adapter universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART port and or the lice to interface between corresponding I O devices .

Control unit further may include a wireless system . Wireless system may comprise one or more devices for wireless connections and or wireless communications. External interface and or wireless system may provide and or receive analog and or digital signals to communicate between control unit and external devices networks and or information sources such as vehicle for example. External interface and or wireless system may implement industry promulgated architecture standards including for example Ethernet IEEE 802 type standards such as IEEE 802.3 for broadband and or baseband networks IEEE 802.3z for Gigabit Ethernet IEEE 802.4 for token passing bus networks IEEE 802.5 for token ring networks IEEE 802.6 for metropolitan area. networks and or the like Fibre Channel digital subscriber line DSL asymmetric digital subscriber line ASDL frame relay asynchronous transfer mode ATM integrated digital services network ISDN personal communications services PCS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP serial line Internet protocol point to point protocol SLIP PPP and so on.

Wireless system may include a wireless communication device . Wireless communication device may communicate between control unit and external devices networks and or information sources. For example wireless communication device may be capable of communicating over a wireless communication network . Wireless communication network may comprise one or more of the following a cellular phone network a two way radio network an Internet network a virtual private broadband network a peer to peer voice over Internet protocol IP system a local area network LAN a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless wide area network WWAN a wireless fidelity network WiFi a worldwide interoperability for microwave access network WiMax a multiple input multiple output antenna network MIMO a time division domain multiple access network TDMA a code division multiple access network CDMA a Bluetooth network an ultra wide band network UWB and or a space division multiple access network SDMA the like or combinations thereof according to the particular application.

Wireless system may include a wireless connection device . Wireless connection device may wirelessly connect between control unit and external devices such as wirelessly communicating with vehicle for example. As used herein the term wireless connection device may be any device capable of short range wireless connection between two or more electronic devices thereof according to the particular application. For example wireless connection device may be a Bluetooth connection device and or the like according to the particular application.

Wireless system may include a radio frequency identification device referred to as REID device hereinafter . As used herein the term RFID device may be any device capable of transferring radio frequency identification information. Examples of RFID devices may include but are not limited to active RFID devices passive RFID devices the like and or combinations thereof according to the particular application. RFID device may communicate between control unit and external devices networks and or information sources such as wirelessly communicating with vehicle for example. Additionally or alternatively RFID device may be capable of communicating with a second RFID device located adjacent or remote from control unit to transfer RFID information between RFID device and RFID device . For example RFID device may include an RFID reader and or an RFID tag where RFID reader of RFID device may retrieve RFID information from an RFID tag of RFID device and or where RFID tag of RFID device may deliver RFID information to RFID reader of RFID device . RFID device may be coupled to wireless communication device to be capable of communicating information such as RFID information via wireless communication network . Additionally or alternatively an RFID ionosphere may be in communication with RFID device so that control unit may be capable of communicating information such as RFID information via RFID device and RFID ionosphere . As used herein the term RFID ionosphere may be any system capable of communicating RFID information.

Control unit further may communicate with an external server . For example control unit may communicate with external server via external interface and or wireless system to supply information and or data to control unit . Additionally or alternatively control unit may communicate with external server via RFID device through RFID ionosphere . Additionally or alternatively control unit may communicate with external server via wireless communication device through wireless communication network .

As discussed above control unit may communicate in one or more various ways with vehicle . Vehicle may comprise many components similar to those described above with respect to control unit . For example vehicle may comprise one or more of the following processor memory control program display I O device external interface wireless system wireless communication device wireless connection device RFID device . A description of the operation of these components of vehicle will be understood from the corresponding description above with respect to control unit .

The versions of control program that may be installed in vehicle and the versions of control program that may be installed in control unit may differ in various ways. The versions of control program that may be installed in control unit may be specific to the operating system of control unit and may need to be programmed to a specific application programming interface API such as a Symbian platform or a Microsoft Windows CE operating system as well as individual devices hardware API although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Further versions of control program that may be installed in control unit may be more command and response based while the versions of control program that may be installed in vehicle may be specific to both manufacturers hardware and software API. Additionally or alternatively the versions of control program that may be installed in vehicle may be adapted to interact directly with vehicle systems to enable vehicle systems to actualize vehicle system settings communicate outside vehicle display results back to control unit and or display results on display of vehicle . Control program installed in vehicle and or control program installed in control unit may be additionally or alternatively capable of monitoring changing and communicating with environments inside and outside vehicle .

I O device of vehicle may comprise a microphone and or a speaker. The microphone may be capable of converting sound waves into an electric current. The speaker may be capable of converting electrical signals into sounds loud enough to be heard. The microphone and or speaker may be capable of converting verbal commands of a user into an electric current to trigger a response or action by vehicle .

Wireless connection device of vehicle may wirelessly connect between vehicle and external devices such as wirelessly communicating with control unit for example. For example wireless connection device may wirelessly connect with corresponding wireless connection device of control unit . Additionally or alternatively RFID device may communicate between vehicle and external devices networks and or information sources such as wirelessly communicating with control unit for example. For example RFID device may wirelessly connect with corresponding RFID device of control unit .

Vehicle may include a global positioning system device referred to as GPS device hereinafter . As used herein the term GPS device may be any device capable of determining global position according to the particular application. GPS device may be capable of communicating with a GPS satellite to transfer location information such as coordinate location information between GPS device and one or more GPS satellites and or a constellation of satellites and or space vehicles and or ground equipment.

Vehicle may include one or more vehicle systems . Vehicle system may communicate with processor via a bus not shown external interface and or wireless system the like or combinations thereof. For example vehicle system may communicate with processor via wireless connection device and or RFID device the like or combinations thereof. Vehicle system may include one or more of the following a vehicle component system a media system an environmental system and or an information direction system the like or combinations thereof.

Referring to an illustration of control unit according to one or more embodiments is shown although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect. Control unit may include more and or fewer components than those shown in . However generally conventional components may not be shown for example a battery a processor and so on. Illustrated in control unit may include a housing that may be capable of being personally portable such as for example being carried and or worn by a user although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in tins respect. As used herein the term personally portable comprises but is not limited to being capable of being carried on and or by a person. Additionally or alternatively housing may be capable of being selectively moved between a selected first or second vehicle although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect. Housing may comprise any number of devices such as for example a cellular phone a hand held device a wrist worn device a device worn on belt and or belt clip a device coupled to a key chain and or the like or combinations thereof although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect.

Housing may be capable of housing all or a portion of control unit such as for example external interface and or wireless system the like or combinations thereof according to the particular application. Housing may be coupled to external interface and or wireless system where control unit may be capable of communicating between housing and the selected first or second vehicle via external interface and or wireless system although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect.

Vehicle may comprise a cradle capable of holding control unit within vehicle . External interface and or wireless system of vehicle may be incorporated with cradle to provide communication between vehicle and control unit although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect. Additionally or alternatively vehicle may comprise a system enable button . System enable button may trigger the connection between vehicle and control unit and or trigger the activation of vehicle system settings. Once vehicle system settings are transferred by processor of vehicle control program may be executed to actualize vehicle system settings such as for example settings for external communications from interior GPS device and RFID device to external server for data services from multiple data points and content suppliers to bring desired information and content not normally available inside vehicle .

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrates an example procedure for operating control unit and or vehicle in accordance with one or more embodiments although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect. The procedure illustrated in may be used to transfer one or more vehicle system settings from control unit to the selected first or second vehicle for example although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Additionally although procedure as shown in comprises one particular order of blocks the order in which the blocks are presented does not necessarily limit the claimed subject matter to any particular order. Likewise intervening blocks shown in and or additional blocks not shown in may be employed and or blocks shown in may be eliminated without departing from the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Procedure depicted in may in alternative embodiments be implemented in software hardware and or firmware and may comprise discrete operations. As illustrated procedure starts at block where control unit may transfer one or more vehicle system settings to a first vehicle if in communication with the first vehicle . At block control unit may transfer the one or more vehicle system settings to a second vehicle if in communication with the second vehicle . The one or more vehicle system settings may comprise settings for one or more of the following vehicle systems vehicle component system media system environmental system and or information direction system the like or combinations thereof.

At block vehicle may transmit a confirmation of receiving vehicle system settings message received by control unit and or received by a user. Additionally or alternatively vehicle may transmit a confirmation of receiving vehicle system settings message to a user via display and or I O device the like or combinations thereof although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

At block vehicle may determine if the received vehicle system settings are possible. If the received vehicle system settings are not possible vehicle may transmit a desired settings not possible message at block received by control unit and or received by a user. If the received vehicle system settings are possible vehicle may determine if the received vehicle system settings are immediately activated at block . If the received vehicle system settings are immediately activated vehicle may transmit a system has activated settings message at block received by control unit and or received by a user. If the received vehicle system settings are not immediately activated vehicle may transmit a system will seek to activate settings in the future message at block received by control unit and or received by a user. Additionally or alternatively additional steps may be taken upon a confirmation input from the user to control unit and or vehicle no action from the user to control unit and or vehicle and or a reset request from the user to control unit and or vehicle .

Referring now to in operation control unit may comprise a portable device enabled via software to be capable of transferring vehicle system settings to an automated set of vehicle control systems such as for example vehicle systems . Accordingly control unit may permit a user s preferred set of custom vehicle system settings to be transferred to one or more vehicles to which the user seeks the implementation of their custom vehicle system settings. Additionally or alternatively control unit may integrate wireless system as a storage tool and interface conduit for porting settings to one or more vehicles . Accordingly a control unit running control program and vehicle running control program may implement a user s preferred set of custom vehicle system settings by enacting the software and settings contained within control unit . For example a user s preferred set of custom vehicle system settings may be initiated while inside vehicle by cradling control unit in cradle RFID signaling such as for example RFID device and or via Bluetooth connection such as for example via wireless connection device the like or combinations thereof although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Additionally or alternatively a user s preferred set of custom vehicle system settings may be initiated once control unit has been activated within the confines of vehicle for example by activating system enable button although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Control unit may be capable of being loaded with the user s preferred set of custom vehicle system settings either directly through I O device porting the settings to control unit from vehicle and or porting the settings to control unit from a personal computing device not shown although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In addition to certain direct vehicle system settings such as setting the internal temperature of vehicle the user may also enter more complex vehicle system settings including time dependent vehicle system settings. For example vehicle system settings may include a request to play mellow music before 10 AM and raucous rock and roll from 5 7 PM. Certain vehicle system settings may then occur automatically at their scheduled times such as seat settings media settings for radio and video availability internal temperature and gauge warnings.

Additionally or alternatively with control program and connected between control unit and vehicle vehicle may display and or voice activate dialogue with the user. Vehicle system settings and confirmations of vehicle system settings may be instituted within vehicle with one or more of the following information and direction history from information direction system media settings from media system the inside environmental settings from environmental system and or vehicle component settings from vehicle component system the like or combinations thereof although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Additionally or alternatively control unit and or vehicle may perform communications outside vehicle via wireless system and or wireless system . For example control unit and or vehicle may make requests and or default requests to gain access to any data that may be available outside vehicle via one or more of the following wireless communication network RFID ionosphere external server and or GPS satellite the like or combinations thereof although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Settings resets current status and or future recommendations made by control unit and or vehicle may be displayed on display and or display communicated via a voice activated system such as through I O device and or I O device and or communicated to a third party device such as external server although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Accordingly third parties such as for example parents and or rental car companies may track user behavior via control unit and or vehicle .

Control unit and or vehicle may include additional components not shown in and or components shown in may be eliminated without departing from the scope of the claimed subject matter. For example control unit may comprise a compact disc chip and or cartridge the like or combinations thereof which may communicate with I O device of vehicle to transfer vehicle system settings from control unit to vehicle although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Additionally or alternatively vehicle may be adapted to receive a code from user to trigger transfer of vehicle system settings from external server to vehicle although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Referring now to a flow diagram illustrates an example procedure for communicating an order placement via control unit and or vehicle in accordance with one or more embodiments although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in tins respect. The procedure illustrated in may be used to communicate an order placement between vehicle and a store via wireless system of vehicle and or to communicate an order confirmation between housing and store via wireless system of control unit where control unit may be operating outside vehicle for example although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Additionally although procedure as shown in comprises one particular order of blocks the order in which the blocks are presented does not necessarily limit the claimed subject matter to any particular order. Likewise intervening blocks shown in and or additional blocks not shown in may be employed and or blocks shown in may be eliminated without departing from the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Procedure depicted in may in alternative embodiments be implemented in software hardware and or firmware and may comprise discrete operations. As illustrated procedure starts at block where vehicle may submit a search request. For example vehicle may submit a search request to external server to search for a store such as store based at least in part on one or more search criteria although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. At block vehicle may receive search results from external server . At block vehicle may present search results. For example vehicle may present search results visually and or acoustically via display and or via I O device and or vehicle may transmit such information to control unit to be presented visually and or acoustically via display and or via I O device although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. At block vehicle may present directions to one or more selected stores . At block vehicle may present one or more available purchase options of store . For example vehicle may present one or more available purchase options of store in a ranked order based at least in part on one or more prior purchases although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. At block vehicle may communicate an order placement between vehicle and store . For example vehicle may communicate an order placement between vehicle and store via wireless system although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. At block an order acceptance message may be received at vehicle from store . At block control unit may communicate an order confirmation between control unit and store . For example control unit may communicate an order confirmation between control unit and store via wireless system where control unit may be located outside vehicle such as when control unit is located within store although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. At block store may communicate a receipt of the transaction to control unit .

Referring now to a representation of a screen shot of control unit and or vehicle is depicted in accordance with one or more embodiments although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect. The screen shot illustrated in may be a general user interface welcome screen that may be accessed through control unit and or vehicle . For example general user interface welcome screen may be presented to a user via display and or I O device of vehicle and or via display and or I O device of control unit although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. General user interface welcome screen may be triggered through control unit contact with cradle and or may be triggered through voice activation touch screen and or keypad through I O device of vehicle and or I O device of control unit . General user interface welcome screen may allow a user to go to another screen to select settings outside vehicle via field . General user interface welcome screen may allow a user to set vehicle system settings for media system via field vehicle component system via field environmental system via field information direction system via field and or user profile display data via field . For example a user may select field to access a general user interface page for information and directions although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Referring now to a representation of a screen shot of control unit and or vehicle is depicted in accordance with one or more embodiments although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect. The screen shot illustrated in may be a general user interface page for information and directions. General user interface page may display choices to one or more of the following options get directions via field and or search for services via field . For example a user may select field to access a service search result page although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Referring now to a representation of a screen shot of control unit and or vehicle is depicted in accordance with one or more embodiments although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect. The screen shot illustrated in may be a service search result page . Service search result page may list services to choose from. For example service search result page may display choices to one or more of the following options favorites via field food choices via field entertainment choices via field and or emergency services via field . For example a user may select field to access a favorites result page although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Referring now to a representation of a screen shot of control unit and or vehicle is depicted in accordance with one or more embodiments although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect. The screen shot illustrated in may be a favorites result page . Favorites result page may display choices to one or more options in a ranked order based at least in part on one or more prior purchases and or activities. For example favorites result page may display choices to one or more of the following options Popeye s restaurant via field including the distance to the restaurant which may selected via field to get specific directions using GPS mapping technology Boston Red Sox via field including generating the result that there is no game scheduled for today based on external data from external server the fictitious McCormick Smohils restaurant via field Starbucks via field more options via field and or additional search options via field although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. For example a user may select field to access a store result page although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Referring now to a representation of a screen shot of control unit and or vehicle is depicted in accordance with one or more embodiments although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect. The screen shot illustrated in may be a store result page . Store result page may display related information for the selected store and or may provide a voice activated sequence. Store result page may display related information for the selected store including but not limited to directions to store via field and or a list of order options via field . For example the list of order options may include favorite items from the selected store in a ranked order based at least in part on one or more prior purchases and or activities although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. For example a user may select a particular item via field to access an order placement page although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Referring now to a representation of a screen shot of control unit and or vehicle is depicted in accordance with one or more embodiments although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect. The screen shot illustrated in may be an order placement page . Order placement page may display one or more selected items for purchase via field and or a purchase option via field . For example a user may select a particular item via field and may trigger an order placement to store via field although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Referring now to a representation of a screen shot of control unit and or vehicle is depicted in accordance with one or more embodiments although the claimed subject matter is not limited in scope in this respect. The screen shot illustrated in may be an order confirmation page . Order confirmation page may display one or more of the following an option to confirm the transaction for deployment via field an option to save the transaction via field or an option to hold for deployment at a more ideal time via field . For example an RFIG file may be communicated via RFID ionosphere to store once control unit has been brought to and or within the point of purchase store although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Additionally or alternatively the RFIG file may be saved or held for deployment at a more ideal time although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Referring now to in operation control unit and or vehicle may communicate an order placement to store . The order placement to store may be sent via wireless communication network via RFID ionosphere and or via a similar system from vehicle although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. The order placement to store may include a message to get the ordered item ready for pickup and or may include relevant billing information. The order placement to store may be received by a server system of store . Upon arrival at store a user may take portable control unit into store where the order confirmation signal may be communicated to store . For example store may have a register not shown comprising an RFID device a database and or a content delivery system which communicates a receipt for the transaction and triggers the ordered item to be transferred to the user although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. The receipt confirmation may then be printed out for records by the user emailed as a record transferred wirelessly as a record. Additionally or alternatively the receipt confirmation may be utilized by information direction system of vehicle either when control unit is turned on and or upon control unit being reactivated to update user behavior although the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In the preceding description various aspects of the claimed subject matter have been described. For purposes of explanation specific numbers systems and or configurations were set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. However it should be apparent to one skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without the specific details. In other instances well known features were omitted and or simplified so as not to obscure the claimed subject matter. While certain features have been illustrated and or described herein many modifications substitutions changes and or equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and or changes as fall within the true spirit of the claimed subject matter.

