---

title: Security using physical objects
abstract: A password-type security system may be employed using the placement of physical objects as a security pattern that is to be matched before access to secured content is granted. The system may be implemented on a computing system that uses a display that can detect, e.g., via optical circuitry, the visual characteristics of the display surface. The system can visually detect the placement of objects, their orientations, locations, color, printed patterns, etc. The user may define a security pattern as comprising one or more objects placed at locations on the screen, or at a predetermined rotation angle. The outline shape of an object may be treated as a required pattern, such that access to secured content is permitted only if the object having that outline shape is detected on the display surface. Similarly, printed patterns on objects may also be detected and used as part of security patterns.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08001613&OS=08001613&RS=08001613
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08001613
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060623
---
Passwords have become ubiquitous in daily life. Today it is not uncommon for a person to have to remember dozens of unique words codes numbers and phrases to gain access to bank automated teller machines ATMs subscription Internet sites work computers e mail programs cell phone accounts cable television pay per view and other television parental control features and a plethora of other secure locations. Many times these passwords are randomly generated sequences of letters and numbers that may enhance security but may also be difficult to remember. Couple that with the equally random account numbers that often go with these services and it is easy to see why many have resorted to using the same password at different locations or writing passwords down on a handy piece of paper by the computer. Obviously such efforts compromise security undermining the purpose for their existence in the first place.

As technology marches onward new genres of products offer opportunities for doing things differently. One such technology offers video displays that can see or optically detect objects that are placed against or near the display surface. The description below offers password security features that may take advantage of the capabilities of these kinds of displays.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features essential features or required advantages of the claimed subject matter or in limiting the scope of the appended claims.

Methods are described herein that allow users to define security levels in a computing system that uses the shape and or layout arrangement of one or more physical objects. Accessing secured content may require the placement of physical objects against a display surface that can detect the objects. The user can request to define any security pattern they wish and the system may respond by asking the user to place the desired object or objects in the desired pattern on the display. The system may then detect the various visual attributes of the placed object s such as their outline shape position on the display relative positioning with respect to other objects rotation orientation interior design pattern etc. and may ask the user to select which ones will be used in the security pattern.

The display surface may be a table top configuration which may be used as a desk so it may contain other objects not necessarily intended by the user to be security pattern objects. The system when defining a security pattern may give the user the option of de selecting certain objects so that they are ignored in the pattern being created.

When configuring the security pattern the system may display an attribute menu adjacent to each detected object on the display. The menu can list the various detected attributes and may give the user the option to check un check the individual attributes to allow the user to customize the level of security desired. For example a user might simply wish to use the object s outline shape for one security pattern and may wish to use the outline shapes and rotational orientations of a group of objects for another security pattern.

For the attributes that are to be used the system may also allow the user to define a margin of error for the application of the security pattern. Accordingly if the security pattern requires that an object having a particular shape be placed at a particular location on the display the system may be configured to accept placements of the object in slightly different locations e.g. 5 to the left or right 10 above etc. .

Users may find it easier to remember a physical object based security pattern and having a physical object associated with the security pattern may allow users to easily recognize how secure or unsecure their content is both of which may give the user greater confidence in the system. A user might not readily understand the difference in security between a five letter alphanumeric password and a ten letter one but the user may easily understand the relative difference between requiring the placement and or arrangement of five objects versus ten. Additionally since a physical object cannot be duplicated as easily as an alphanumeric password a user who temporarily loses the object e.g. to a child who sneaks the object from a mother s purse can rest assured that when the object is returned the security is restored without having to create a new security pattern . These advantages and others may be realized using some or all of the features described herein.

The features herein are described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that can perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the features may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The features may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to the exemplary system for implementing features described herein includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit .

Computer may include a variety of computer readable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media and communication media. The system memory may include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up may be stored in ROM . RAM may contain data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable nonremovable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to nonremovable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable nonremovable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive may be connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive may be connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in may provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device may also be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . The video interface may be bidirectional and may receive video input from sensors associated with the monitor . For example the monitor may be touch and or proximity sensitive such that contacts to a monitor surface may be used as input data. The input sensors for affecting this could be a capacitive touch sensitive device an array of resistive contact sensors an optical sensor or camera or any other desired sensor to make the monitor touch and or proximity sensitive. The monitor itself may be optically sensitive such as the example shown in and described below. In an alternative arrangement or in addition a touch optical and or proximity sensitive input system may be separate from monitor and may include a planar surface such as a table top and any applicable sensing systems to make the planar surface touch sensitive such as camera . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer may be connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer may include a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used. Many of the features described herein may be implemented using computer executable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media such as the media described above for execution on the one or more units that make up processing unit .

The computing device shown in may be incorporated into a system having table display device as shown in . The display device may include a display surface which may be a planar surface such as the table top . As described hereinafter the display surface may also help to serve as a user interface.

The display device may display a computer generated image on its display surface which allows the device to be used as a display monitor such as monitor for computing processes displaying graphical user interfaces displaying television or other visual images video games and the like. The display may be projection based and may use a digital light processing e.g. DLP by Texas Instruments Inc. Plano Tex. technique or it may be based on other display technologies such as liquid crystal display LCD technology. Where a projection style display is used a projector may be used to project light onto the underside of the display surface . It may do so directly or may do so using one or more mirrors. As shown in the projector in this example projects light for a desired image onto a first reflective surface which may in turn reflect light onto a second reflective surface which may ultimately reflect that light onto the underside of the display surface causing the surface to emit light corresponding to the desired display.

In addition to being used as an output display for displaying images the device may also be used as an input receiving device. As illustrated in the device may include one or more light emitting devices such as IR light emitting diodes LEDs mounted in the device s interior. The light from devices may be projected upwards through the display surface and may reflect off of various objects that are above the display surface . For example one or more objects may be placed in physical contact with the display surface . One or more other objects may be placed near the display surface but not in physical contact e.g. closely hovering . The light emitted from the emitting device s may reflect off of these objects and may be detected by a camera which may be an IR camera if IR light is used. The signals from the camera may then be forwarded to a computing device e.g. the computer shown in for processing which based on various configurations for various applications may identify the object and its orientation e.g. touching or hovering tilted partially touching etc. based on its shape and the amount type of light reflected. To assist in identifying the objects the objects may include a reflective pattern such as a bar code on their lower surface. To assist in differentiating objects in contact from hovering objects the display surface may include a translucent layer that diffuses emitted light. Based on the amount of light reflected back to the camera through this layer the associated processing system may determine whether an object is touching the surface and if the object is not touching a distance between the object and the surface . Accordingly various physical objects e.g. fingers elbows hands stylus pens blocks etc. may be used as physical control members providing input to the device or to an associated computing device .

The device shown in is illustrated as using light projection and sensing techniques for the display of data and the reception of input but other techniques may be used as well. For example stylus sensitive displays are currently available for use with Tablet based laptop computers and such displays may be used as device . Additionally stylus and other touch sensitive displays are available with many personal data assistants PDAs and those types of displays may also be used as device .

The device is also shown in a substantially horizontal orientation with the display surface acting as a tabletop. Other orientations may also be used. For example the device may be oriented to project a display onto any desired surface such as a vertical wall. Reflective IR light may also be received from any such oriented surface.

The user may also configure the system to require the placement of more than one object. illustrates an example in which four example objects are placed on the display as a security pattern. In the example the security pattern involves one or more dice a trophy having an oval base and a stapler all placed on the display before being satisfied and granting access to the secured content. As with the keychain these objects may also be required to be placed at the proper locations orientations and or at the proper angles before access will be granted to the secured content.

If a request has been received the process may move to step and await the user s placement of objects on the display . The system may prompt the user with a pop up display or other message requesting that the user place the proposed security pattern objects on the display. Step may occur prior to or simultaneously with the request in step .

When the proposed security pattern objects are placed on the display the system proceeds to step and scans to determine what objects are seen or detected on the display. During this process the system may trace the outlines of the objects detected on the display and may measure and record placement and orientation data identifying various aspects e.g. appearance outline location rotation etc. described below of how the objects were arranged. The system may display an attribute menu as illustrated in for each detected object. The present discussion will digress briefly to discuss the attribute menu in greater detail.

A separate attribute menu may be displayed adjacent to each object detected on the display surface in step . The attribute menu may display a number of object characteristics that have been detected by the system and may be selected for inclusion in the security pattern being generated as well as the option to have certain detected objects ignored or excluded from the security pattern being defined. For example the user may be given an option to de select a particular object to indicate that a detected object is not intended to be part of the security pattern. This may be useful for example if the user has other miscellaneous objects on the display surface and does not wish to clear off the entire surface to generate the pattern. This may also be useful if inadvertent objects such as the user s elbow were placed on the display and detected in step .

For objects that the user wishes to include in the security pattern the user may have an option to indicate that the object s outline shape is an attribute to be used in the security pattern. This may be useful for example if the user has a particular object e.g. the star shaped keychain ornament that he she intends to treat as the key to the secured content. If this option is selected e.g. by checking a selection box then when the security pattern is in use it will require the presence somewhere on the display of the object s outline before granting access to the secured content.

As another option the user may request that the object s interior pattern also be a required attribute of the security pattern. The display may detect visual patterns on the bottom surface of objects resting on the display and may incorporate those patterns in the security pattern when this option is selected. So for example if object is a die then the pattern shown in may be the detected interior pattern. If this interior pattern is included in the security pattern then the secured content will only be unlocked if the object having this pattern in the example the number 5 on the die is placed on the display surface. The interior pattern may be any printed pattern or surface feature. shows an example of a bar code that may be affixed to or carved in the bottom of stapler and detected. The pattern may be printed using visible ink or any other form of ink e.g. invisible to humans that can be detected by the display system s camera .

As another option the user may request that the current position of the object be used as a required attribute of the security pattern. The location may be expressed in terms of X Y display e.g. pixel coordinates or any other desired coordinate system. This requirement will require the placement of an object at the specified location but will not necessarily require the same object used in defining the security pattern. For example if the security pattern only includes object position criteria without other object specific criteria such as shape outline and shape interior pattern the placement of any object at the specified location may serve to satisfy the security pattern. This may be useful for example if the user does not want to have to remember to bring specific objects to the display to unlock secured content. Instead the user might simply want to remember that unlocking that content requires placing for example any object in the upper left corner of the display or placing multiple objects in the shape of a square at some location on the display.

The options may also include a granularity option. The granularity option may specify a margin for error permitted in unlocking the secured content. So for example if the object s position is a required part of the security pattern the user may specify a 5 margin of error that will also satisfy the requirement. In such a case if the user attempts to unlock content locked by a security pattern that requires placing an object at location 100 100 but places the object 5 off of the required location e.g. at coordinates 95 100 or 95 95 the system may still treat that as satisfying the requirement. Some programs may automatically include a degree of granularity in some or all of the security pattern s requirements to allow users some flexibility in use. Some programs may place limitations on the ranges of granularity permitted such as a guaranteed minimum margin for error to prevent users from requiring too high a degree of precision or a granularity ceiling to avoid giving so much margin for error that the attribute loses value as a security measure.

Another option may specify the rotational orientation angle made by the object. Some objects may have a normal vertical axis based on their shape and the rotational angle may indicate how much the object has been rotated away from its normal axis. For example the star keychain may be defined as upright with one point pointing straight up and its arrangement in is considered to be rotated by an angle . The normal axis may be predetermined as part of shape recognition software used in the system or the user may define the object s normal axis in a configuration process e.g. by placing the object on the display and identifying the normal axis by touching two points to define the axis or by touching a point outside the object through which the normal axis passes if the center of the object is otherwise specified . The rotational offset is also subject to a granularity option to allow for angular imperfections when the pattern is in use. These are example visual attributes that may be used and other aspects of an object may be required as well. For example some implementations may require specific colors reflectivity light scattering patterns of movement or placement in multiple locations and or orientations over a period of time radio frequency identifiers etc. to be present in an object to satisfy a security pattern requirement.

Returning now to the process of in step the user selects the desired attribute s that will be requirements in the security pattern being defined e.g. by checking selection boxes in the various attribute menus and in step the user may define granularities for the various attributes.

The process may then move to step to determine if a request has been made to unlock content that is secured by a security pattern. The request may be made in any way desired. For example if the security pattern is registered as restricting a particular video program e.g. adult video content the request may be made when a user operates a remote control e.g. a handheld remote or using a remote control graphical user interface on display to select the restricted content. The request may also occur automatically for example if a user had previously scheduled a program to be recorded before the program was locked by another user but the program had become locked by the time it was scheduled to air.

If no request is made the process may return to step to begin anew. If a request is made to access locked content the process may proceed to step where the user attempting to access the content is prompted to present the required security pattern. The system may continuously scan the display surface and determine whether the required pattern is present or alternatively it may simply ask the user to indicate e.g. by pressing a Ready button displayed with the prompt when he she is finished arranging objects to present as the security pattern. In some instances one or more of the required objects may already have been on the display surface and might only need to be moved to the correct location after the request in order to satisfy the security pattern. For example if the user is using the display as a desk he she may already have objects like coffee mugs staplers telephones computers pen holders etc. lying about on the display surface. Some of these may have been designated security objects and the user might configure a security pattern to simply require moving one of these objects to its proper location after the request to unlock the secured content.

Once the objects are in place in step the system may scan the display surface to determine whether the required security pattern is present. During this process the system may simply ignore those objects that do not satisfy any part of the security pattern looking just for the required attributes. This may allow the user to avoid having to clear off the entire surface of the display in order to present the pattern. Alternatively the security pattern may be configured to require just that that only the objects specified by the pattern are placed on the display during the pattern verification process. In some situations applications may define a subset area of the display that must be cleared of extraneous objects and only contain the security pattern objects i.e. all objects detected in the subset area during verification are compared to the security pattern and objects that do not satisfy an attribute of the security pattern cause the verification to fail .

If the security pattern is present the system may grant the requested access in step . If the security pattern is not present the system may deny access in step . The security pattern process may then return to step to begin anew. Note that the security pattern process may be used in conjunction with traditional alphanumeric passwords if desired to provide a higher degree of security.

The security pattern may be stored as a data structure in any of the computer readable media and storage devices described above. For example the security pattern may be stored as a file having the contents shown below 

The parameter may be an alphanumeric name given by the user when defining the security pattern. The may be an identifier of the television program television channel Internet site software application data file or other content whose access will require that the user correctly provide the security pattern. The security pattern is not limited to locking just one piece of content and may instead be used to lock a variety of different pieces of content e.g. multiple files applications programs etc. .

The parameter may identify a number of objects that will need to be presented to satisfy the security pattern. For each object the security pattern file may identify one or more attributes associated with the object. So for example Object 1 might only require that a particular item be placed somewhere on the display and may list a single attribute. The attribute may identify e.g. a file pointer file name etc. a source from which the outline of the required shape may be obtained. This may be an image file such as a .BMP .JPG .PDF etc. and may be generated using a computer assisted drawing CAD program such as MICROSOFT VISIO product of Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. .

Other parameters may be stored as well. For example Object 2 might also include a attribute. This attribute may identify one or more pixel coordinates e.g. 100 200 on the display that are required to be occupied by the given object as well as any granularity tolerances e.g. 5 10 etc. specified by the user. If multiple objects are included in the security pattern the position attribute may refer to relative positions among the objects as opposed to fixed coordinates on the display. For example the security pattern may indicate that three objects form the vertices of an equilateral triangle with no requirement of how large or small the triangle must be. So long as the three objects maintain the correct relative position with one another they may satisfy such an attribute.

Other objects such as Object 3 may include a attribute that may identify the source of a pattern image akin to the image file identified above to be matched for the object and a attribute that may identify a required angle of rotation and associated granularity values.

Using one or more of the features and approaches described above users experiences with various orientations can be improved. Although the description above provides illustrative examples and sequences of actions it should be understood that the various examples and sequences may be rearranged divided combined and subcombined as desired. For example steps and features described may be omitted or additional steps and features may be added. Accordingly although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

