---

title: Apparatus and method for integrating wireless field devices with a wired protocol in a process control system
abstract: An apparatus is provided for facilitating integration of a wireless field device (such as a wireless sensor or actuator) and a wired protocol that is used in a process control system. The apparatus supports a wireless field device protocol for communicating with the wireless field device. The apparatus also supports a wired field device protocol for communicating with other components of the process control system over a network. The apparatus could map a wireless application model associated with the wireless field device protocol to a wired application model associated with the wired field device protocol. The apparatus could actually support multiple mappings from the wireless application model to wired application models associated with multiple wired field device protocols. As particular examples, the wired field device protocol(s) could include the HART, Foundation Fieldbus, Profibus, and/or Modbus protocols. The network could represent an Ethernet network or a serial network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07965664&OS=07965664&RS=07965664
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 07965664
owner_city: Morristown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060531
---
Ser. No. 11 444 044 entitled APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR CONVERTING BETWEEN DEVICE DESCRIPTION LANGUAGES IN A PROCESS CONTROL SYSTEM 

Ser. No. 11 444 043 entitled APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR INTEGRATING WIRELESS OR OTHER FIELD DEVICES IN A PROCESS CONTROL SYSTEM and

Ser. No. 11 443 773 entitled APPARATUS SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR INTEGRATING A WIRELESS NETWORK WITH WIRED FIELD DEVICES IN A PROCESS CONTROL SYSTEM 

This disclosure relates generally to control systems and more specifically to an apparatus and method for integrating wireless field devices with a wired protocol in a process control system.

Processing facilities are often managed using process control systems. Example processing facilities include manufacturing plants chemical plants crude oil refineries and ore processing plants. Among other operations process control systems typically interact with and control various field devices such as sensors and actuators in the processing facilities.

Wireless technology provides opportunities for process control systems to reduce instrumentation costs such as by reducing the costs of installing and using sensors or other field devices in a control system. This reduction may for example be useful for less critical process measurements where the costs of installing and using wired field devices may exceed the benefits provided by those wired field devices.

Wireless field devices often use different protocols than configuration tools diagnostic and asset management systems control and monitoring systems or other components in a process control system. These other components in a process control system often use wired protocols to communicate. This often interferes with the ability to fully integrate and use wireless field devices in a process control system.

This disclosure provides an apparatus and method for integrating wireless field devices with a wired protocol in a process control system.

In a first embodiment a method includes receiving first information from a wireless field device in a process control system. The first information is associated with a wireless field device protocol. The method also includes converting the first information associated with the wireless field device protocol into second information associated with a wired field device protocol. In addition the method includes communicating the second information over a network using the wired field device protocol.

In particular embodiments converting the first information into the second information includes converting between a wireless application model associated with the wireless field device protocol and a wired application model associated with the wired field device protocol. A mapping that associates the wireless application model and the wired application model could be used to convert the first information into the second information. The mapping could represent one of a plurality of mappings where the plurality of mappings associate the wireless application model and a plurality of wired application models associated with a plurality of wired field device protocols.

In a second embodiment an apparatus includes at least one memory operable to store mapping information mapping a wireless application model associated with a wireless field device protocol and a wired application model associated with a wired field device protocol. The apparatus also includes at least one processor operable to receive first information from a wireless field device in a process control system. The first information is associated with the wireless field device protocol. The at least one processor is also operable to convert the first information associated with the wireless field device protocol into second information associated with the wired field device protocol using at least some of the mapping information. In addition the at least one processor is operable to communicate the second information over a network using the wired field device protocol.

In a third embodiment a computer program is embodied on a computer readable medium and is operable to be executed by a processor. The computer program includes computer readable program code for receiving first information from a wireless field device in a process control system. The first information is associated with a wireless field device protocol. The computer program also includes computer readable program code for converting the first information associated with the wireless field device protocol into second information associated with a wired field device protocol. In addition the computer program includes computer readable program code for communicating the second information over a network using the wired field device protocol.

Other technical features may be readily apparent to one skilled in the art from the following figures descriptions and claims.

In this example the process control system includes multiple wireless field devices . The wireless field devices represent components in a process or production system that may perform any of a wide variety of functions. For example the wireless field devices could represent sensors capable of measuring one or more characteristics of a process or production system. The wireless field devices could also represent valves or other actuators capable of performing one or more actions that alter the process or production system. Each of the wireless field devices includes any suitable device or structure for performing one or more functions in a process or production system.

A process controller controls the operation of the wireless field devices . For example the process controller may be capable of receiving data from one or more of the wireless field devices such as sensors and providing control signals to one or more of the wireless field devices such as actuators . The process controller includes any hardware software firmware or combination thereof for controlling one or more of the wireless field devices 

In this example the wireless field devices communicate with the process controller through one or more wireless gateways and possibly a wireless marshalling panel . Each of the wireless gateways is capable of transmitting information wirelessly to and receiving information wirelessly from the wireless field devices . Each of the wireless gateways includes any device or structure for wirelessly communicating with one or more of the wireless field devices . Each of the wireless gateways could for example include one or more radio frequency RF transmitters receivers or transceivers.

The wireless marshalling panel facilitates communication between the wireless field devices and the process controller . For example the wireless marshalling panel may enable the process controller to communicate with the wireless field devices without requiring the process controller to understand the communication protocol s used by the wireless field devices 

As a particular example the process controller could support the Highway Addressable Remote Transducer HART protocol where signals for field devices are transmitted by the process controller over a multi conductor cable to a terminal block . The terminal block separates the signals for the field devices into wire pairs where each wire pair is associated with a different field device. In these embodiments the wireless marshalling panel could convert HART compliant signals received from the process controller into messages sent to the wireless gateways . The wireless marshalling panel could also convert messages from the wireless gateways into HART compliant signals sent to the process controller . The use of the multi conductor cable and terminal block with the HART protocol is for illustration only. Any other input output technique and or communication network could be used with the HART protocol.

The wireless marshalling panel could include any device or structure facilitating communication between the wireless field devices via the gateways and the process controller . Additional details regarding the wireless marshalling panel can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 394 947 entitled APPARATUS SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR INTEGRATION OF WIRELESS DEVICES WITH A DISTRIBUTED CONTROL SYSTEM which is hereby incorporated by reference. The wireless marshalling panel could support the use of any suitable field device protocol s such as HART FF HSE FF H1 Modbus Profibus and WorldFIP. In this document the phrase field device protocol refers to any protocol s for communicating with one or more field devices in a control system whether or not the field devices of the control system actually use that protocol .

A network couples various components in the process control system . The network represents any suitable computing or communication network capable of transporting data such as one or more local area networks LANs metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs all or a portion of a global network such as the Internet or any other communication system or systems at one or more locations. As particular examples the network could represent an RS 485 network or an Ethernet network. The network could also represent a redundant set of networks such as a pair of Ethernet networks forming a Fault Tolerant Ethernet FTE network.

Each of the wireless field devices could have any number of operational parameters such as tunings performance statistics statuses measurements and other data of interest. The number of parameters could be rather large such as dozens hundreds or even more. For the process controller to effectively interact with and control the wireless field devices a device description language DDL file for each wireless field device can be defined. The DDL file for a wireless field device typically represents a text based or other language file that describes the characteristics of a field device such as the parameters of that field device. The DDL files for field devices are often generated by the manufacturers of those field devices.

Some many or all of the DDL files associated with the field devices could be generated using proprietary non standard or undesirable languages. As shown in a DDL converter is capable of converting DDL files associated with the wireless field devices into standard accepted widely utilized or specified DDL files. As an example a wireless field device could represent a field device using the WIRELESS NETWORK FOR SECURE INDUSTRIAL APPLICATION WNSIA protocol from HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC. and the wireless field device could have an associated WNSIA DDL file. The WNSIA DDL file may use or be associated with a non standard language in the control system although the WNSIA DDL could represent a standard or desired DDL in a control system . The DDL converter could convert the WNSIA DDL file into a HART DDL file a FF DDL file a Profibus DDL or GSD file or some other DDL file. The newly generated DDL file may then be compiled using a tokenizer or other program which compiles the DDL file into binary form for later interpretation or execution. In other embodiments the DDL converter could operate directly on binary files such as by converting WNSIA DDL binary files to binary files compliant with other protocols.

In this way a suitable DDL file for each field device may be available for use in the process control system . For example the DDL files generated by the DDL converter could be used in the process control system to ensure that the process controller an asset management tool or a configuration tool can interact with the wireless field devices . The DDL converter includes any hardware software firmware or combination thereof for converting information associated with one DDL to information associated with a different DDL. The configuration tool may represent a tool used to provide configuration information to components of the process control system allowing the components to be configured or controlled. While shown as forming part of the process control system the DDL converter need not reside in a process control system . The DDL converter could for example be used by a manufacturer that produces field devices such as wireless sensors or actuators for process control systems.

In one aspect of operation the wireless gateways communicate with the wireless field devices using a wireless protocol and with the network using a different protocol. For example the wireless gateways could communicate with the wireless field devices using the WNSIA protocol. The wireless gateways could also communicate over the network using one or more Ethernet or serial protocols such as HART FF Profinet or Modbus.

In these embodiments the wireless gateways may include mapping information or other logic that allows the wireless field devices to communicate with other components in the process control system using one or more wired protocols. For example the wireless gateways could convert between the wireless application model used by the wireless field devices and the application model s of one or more wired protocols. From the perspective of other components in the process control system the wireless field devices appear to use a wired protocol supported by the wireless gateways such as standard wired protocols like HART.

In this way other components in the process control system can interact with and control the wireless field devices using one or more wired protocols. As a particular example the asset management tool and the configuration tool could interact with the field devices as if the field devices supported the HART protocol. The other components in the process control system are not required to support the wireless protocol used by the wireless field devices 

While this disclosure may use the WNSIA protocol as an example of a wireless protocol this is for illustration only. In other embodiments one or more of the wireless field devices could use a different wireless protocol. Moreover the different wireless protocol could represent any suitable protocol including proprietary standard or widely available protocols. The wireless gateways may therefore be capable of converting between any wireless protocol used by one or more wireless field devices and any wired protocol supported in the process control system .

Although illustrates one example of a process control system various changes may be made to . For example a control system could include any number of field devices including wired and or wireless field devices controllers gateways wireless marshalling panels terminal blocks tools and DDL converters. Also the system could include any number and type of connections between the wireless marshalling panel and the process controller . Further illustrates one functional division between components in the system . However various components in could be combined or further subdivided such as by combining the DDL converter and the configuration tool into a single physical unit. Various components could also be omitted from the system if their functionality is not desired or required in a particular implementation. In addition illustrates one operational environment in which wireless field devices may be integrated with one or more wired protocols. This integration functionality could be used in any other suitable device or system.

In this example three wireless field devices represent WNSIA field devices that communicate with the wireless gateway over a WNSIA wireless network . This indicates that the wireless field devices and the wireless gateway communicate using a WNSIA wireless protocol. The WNSIA wireless network could represent any suitable network such as a 56 Mbps 802.11 wireless network.

As shown in the wireless gateway includes WNSIA objects . The WNSIA objects generally represent a wireless application model which defines how wireless communication with the field devices occurs. For example the WNSIA objects could define the messages that are used to transmit data to the wireless field devices . The WNSIA objects could also define the messages containing data that are received from the wireless field devices allowing relevant data to be extracted from the received messages. Additional details regarding the WNSIA protocol and its associated object model are shown in which are described below. Although shown as using WNSIA objects to support a WNSIA wireless network the wireless gateway could support any other or additional type s of wireless network s for communication with the wireless field devices 

The wireless gateway also includes various mappings . The mappings map the wireless application model of the wireless network to application models of standard desired or other wired protocols. In other words the mappings define how data from the wireless field devices can be converted into wired protocols and vice versa. For example a HART multiplexer mapping defines how data from the wireless field devices can be converted into a serial HART compliant data stream as if the gateway was a HART multiplexer . The HART multiplexer mapping also defines how data in a serial HART compliant data stream can be extracted for transmission to the wireless field devices . The mappings represent similar mappings used with the FF HSE and Profibus protocols respectively. The mappings represent similar mappings used with the Modbus Remote Terminal Unit RTU protocol and the Modbus Transmission Control Protocol TCP respectively.

In addition to the mappings the gateway includes a Control Data Access CDA or Fault Tolerant Ethernet FTE access module . The CDA FTE access module supports access to other components in the process control system such as the wireless marshalling panel or an OLE Process Control OPC server . The CDA FTE access module could operate in a similar manner as the mappings such as by formatting data for transmission from the gateway and extracting data from messages received by the gateway . While shown as providing access to a wireless marshalling panel and an OPC server this or any other access module could provide access to these or any other or additional components in the process control system .

In this example the wireless gateway includes one or more processors and one or more memories storing data and instructions used by the processor s such as the objects mappings and integration software . Also the wireless gateway includes at least one interface which may allow the wireless gateway to communicate with other components of the process control system . The interface s could represent any suitable interface such as an Ethernet interface and or a serial interface. The interface s could also include RF transceivers or other wireless equipment for communicating with the wireless field devices. Additional details regarding the integration of wireless field devices with a wired protocol are shown in which is described below.

In order to properly communicate or interact with the wireless field devices a DDL file for each wireless field device may be used. If one or more of the DDL files use an undesired or unexpected format or protocol the DDL converter may convert the DDL file s into a standard desired expected or specified format or protocol. For example the DDL converter could receive a WNSIA DDL file which may be associated with one or more of the wireless field devices . The DDL converter could examine the WNSIA DDL file break the WNSIA DDL file down into its components and reconstruct the components into one or more converted DDL files . The converted DDL files represent DDL files containing the logic or content of the original DDL file expressed in a different format or protocol. In this example the DDL converter converts the WNSIA DDL file into one or more of a HART DDL file a FF DDL file and a Profibus DDL or GSD file . This is for illustration only. The DDL converter could convert any suitable DDL file into any suitable converted DDL file or files . Additional details regarding the operation of the DDL converter can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 444 044 which has been incorporated by reference above.

Although illustrates additional details of one example embodiment of a process control system various changes may be made to . For example the gateway could support any other or additional wireless protocol s and any other or additional mapping s or access module s associated with wired protocol s . Also the DDL converter may be capable of converting DDL files from any other or additional format or protocol into any other or additional format or protocol.

The wireless gateway receives information from a wireless field device at step . This may include for example the wireless gateway receiving information complaint with the WNSIA protocol from a wireless field device. As a particular example messages received from the wireless field device could be compliant with the WNSIA objects which can be used to extract specific data from the messages.

The wireless gateway converts the received information into information compliant with a wired protocol at step . This may include for example the wireless gateway converting the information from the WNSIA wireless field device into information compliant with HART FF Profibus or Modbus. In particular embodiments the wireless gateway uses one or more of the mappings or the access module to convert WNSIA messages from the wireless field device into messages compliant with one or more of the HART FF Profibus and Modbus protocols.

The wireless gateway communicates the converted information over a network using the wired protocol at step . This may include for example the wireless gateway transmitting the converted information over an Ethernet network or a serial network.

The wireless gateway may receive additional information over the network for the wireless field device at step . This may include for example the wireless gateway receiving additional information for the wireless field device over a serial network or an Ethernet network. The additional information could originate from any suitable source such as the process controller the asset management tool or the configuration tool . The additional information is received using the wired protocol.

The wireless gateway converts the additional information into information suitable for transmission to the wireless field device at step . This may include for example the wireless gateway converting HART FF Profibus or Modbus information into information compliant with a wireless protocol. In particular embodiments the wireless gateway uses one or more of the mappings or the access module to convert HART FF Profibus or Modbus messages from the wired protocol into the WNSIA protocol.

The wireless gateway communicates the converted additional information to the wireless field device at step . This may include for example the wireless gateway transmitting WNSIA compliant messages to the wireless field device. The messages are sent to the wireless field device using wireless communications.

Although illustrates one example of a method for integrating wireless field devices with a wired protocol in a process control system various changes may be made to . For example the wireless gateway could convert between any suitable protocols and is not limited to use with the WNSIA HART FF Profibus and Modbus protocols. Also the wireless gateway could convert the information during steps without converting the additional information during steps or vice versa.

As shown in the WNSIA object model is based on an object parameter paradigm. Everything within a WNSIA device including the device itself is represented by an object. Each object can be categorized as an application object or a management object. In this example each analog input transducer analog output transducer digital or binary input transducer and digital or binary output transducer is represented by an application object. Each of these application objects contains a set of parameters describing the device or transducer. Also a physical layer management object PLMO Medium Access Control MAC layer management object MLMO network layer management object NLMO and security layer management object SLMO are included in the management objects. These management objects are used to manage or control different layers of a communication network stack.

As shown in if implemented on a single processor the application objects reside in a user layer. The user layer resides above an Application Interface Layer AIL which resides above a complete network stack including Security Network and Physical layers . Management objects representing the various communication stack layers can also be viewed as residing above the AIL.

As shown in management objects can be implemented on a different processor than the application objects. In this example the AIL can be viewed as being composed of two parts. One part includes an application user layer and the AIL which are provided by an application processor. Another part includes a management user layer the AIL and the remaining layers of the network stack which are provided by a network processor. The different AIL portions shown in are distributed between two or more processors and may communicate with each other over one or more AIL extension channels. These channels may be built on top of any suitable inter processor communication IPC mechanism such as Ethernet or serial communications.

Each one of the six layers shown in user application interface security network L MAC L PHY may have an interface between itself and an adjacent layer. For example an application interface may be defined between the user and application interface layers. A security interface may be defined between the application interface and security layers. A network interface may be defined between the security and network layers. A MAC interface may be defined between the network and L MAC layers. A PHY interface may be defined between the L MAC and L PHY layers. In particular embodiments the application interface is defined and consistent for all WNSIA field devices while the remaining interfaces are internal and may be implemented differently as long as any applicable RF frames and MAC PHY requirements are met. The interfaces between the different layers could for example be implemented using a set of Application Programming Interface API calls using message passing or using an IPC mechanism.

Returning to a hierarchical addressing model may be used to access device data of WNSIA field devices. The top of the hierarchy may be a 16 bit device address. Objects within a device may be identified by an 8 bit object identifier object ID . Parameters within an object may be identified by a parameter number. Parameters that are arrays or structures may be supported in the same manner as in Foundation Fieldbus. Individual array or structure elements may be accessed by specifying an 8 bit element index.

Management objects may represent different layers of the wireless communication stack. The physical layer management object PLMO may contain attributes of the wireless physical communication layer. A MAC layer management object may contain attributes of the wireless MAC layer. There are also management objects for the network layer and security layer as well as possibly other management objects. In particular embodiments management objects within leaf nodes sensors and actuators and infrastructure nodes routing nodes used to route wireless traffic may be fully specified and fixed and device vendors may not extend their functionality. Management objects in addition to parameters may define one or more function codes that can be invoked by other objects within the same node or from a different node. Function calls could be numbered such as from 1 to 255 .

A sensor application may include a device object a firmware download object and one or more transducer blocks. Any number of transducer block types could be supported such as analog input transducer blocks AITB analog output transducer blocks AOTB binary input transducer blocks BITB and binary output transducer blocks BOTB . Each transducer block could correspond to a single process variable or a single output variable. Multivariable sensors may be implemented using multiple AITBs and or multiple BITBs for each of their measurements. A device block could be associated with an object ID of one. An application firmware download object could be associated with an object ID of two. Transducer blocks may use object ID numbers of three and higher. Management objects may have fixed object ID values starting at 255 and decreasing. Table 1 illustrates a possible association of object IDs with objects.

The first parameter within a transducer block may be a process variable or output variable based on the transducer type . Several other parameters following the first parameter may be standard. In addition to the standard parameters transducer blocks could contain vendor specific parameters such as up to 255 total parameters . WNSIA sensor devices may provide measurements in engineering units and process variable or output variable parameters may use Foundation Fieldbus value status structures. For example AITBs and AOTBs may use the Foundation Fieldbus DS 65 data structure and BITBs and BOTBs may use the Foundation Fieldbus DS 66 data structure for their PV D and OP D parameters. The DS 66 data structure may be limited to Boolean values multi state discrete values may not be supported and any non FALSE value may be treated as TRUE. Floating point numbers may be in the IEEE756 format.

Scalar values and one dimensional arrays and structures are supported in the WNSIA protocol. Scalar parameters within an object may be uniquely identified by a parameter number and a parameter index may be ignored if one is specified. Arrays and structures are also supported in the WNSIA protocol and they may be supported in the same manner as in the Foundation Fieldbus protocols. A one based index could be used to identify a specific array or structure element. An index of zero may address an entire array or structure as a whole.

To facilitate data access of a WNSIA field device a parameter class describing a parameter change frequency may be defined as follows. A dynamic D parameter class description typically represents a measurement or computed value that changes every time a device executes its algorithm or obtains a new measurement. A static S parameter class description typically represents a configuration parameter that only changes when written from an external source or that changes infrequently. A constant C parameter class description typically represents a description type parameter identifying a device s physical properties or capabilities that do not change. In particular embodiments every change to a static parameter may result in incrementing a ST REV parameter of either a WNSIA device object or the DLMO to indicate that a static parameter has changed. Devices observing the ST REV parameter can detect a change and refresh a static parameter database accordingly.

WNSIA field device parameters may be further classified by access specification. For example each parameter could fall into one of three groups namely read only RO write only WO or read write RW . An error may be generated in response to an attempt to write data to a read only parameter or an attempt to read data from a write only parameter.

In particular embodiments the data types used in WNSIA devices may represent a subset of the FF defined data types. Table 2 summarizes the simple data types defined by FF that could be used in WNSIA devices.

As described above a status byte may be used to describe the status of a process variable. In particular embodiments a process variable status byte includes three bit fields as shown in Table 4. These fields may represent a consistent subset of the Foundation Fieldbus HART and OPC status byte practices.

A Mode parameter in each transducer block may represent an 8 bit integer with an enumerated set of values. The Mode parameter may be defined as a subset of the FF mode definition. There could be no distinction between target and actual modes. There may also be no concept of normal or permitted modes. In some embodiments two modes are defined namely an Out of Service OOS mode and an Automatic AUTO mode. In particular embodiments an 8 bit value is associated with the Mode parameter where bit the most significant bit corresponds to the OOS mode bit corresponds to the AUTO mode and all other bits are reserved and may be set to 0 . This 8 bit value could be represented by an unsigned integer UInt8 where the OOS mode corresponds to a decimal value of 128 and the AUTO mode corresponds to a decimal value of 8. All bits in the Mode parameter value could be mutually exclusive i.e. the Mode parameter is not a bit string . Other modes such as manual local override or cascade may be added using the reserved bits.

The Mode parameter in the transducer blocks may be related to alarm processing. Setting the Mode parameter to OOS inactivating a block may cause all active alarms to return to normal and corresponding reports are published on the network. Activating a device or setting its Mode parameter to a value other than OOS causes the device to process its alarm conditions and generate alarm reports for those that are active. The Mode parameter may also be related to data publications. If a connection is configured and a transducer is publishing its process variable setting the Mode parameter to OOS may not stop the publication. Rather the data quality may be changed to Bad with a sub status of Out of Service. 

As noted above a WNSIA device object may be used to represent a WNSIA field device. Table 5 illustrates the various parameters of a standard WNSIA device object.

The Vendor Model DevRev and SerialNum parameters may serve several purposes related to device identification. For example the Vendor Model SerialNum triplet may uniquely identify a given physical device which can be used during the device commissioning process to map a device configured offline to an actual piece of hardware. As another example the Vendor Model DevRev triplet combined with a DDRev parameter identifying a device descriptor file revision may uniquely identify a device descriptor required to create a system template for a given device. The DD revision DDRev may allow for the ability to update DD files that correspond to the same version of device firmware. As yet another example the Vendor Model DevRev Build combination may uniquely identify a device s firmware. These relationships are summarized in Table 6.

The Build parameter may be used to reflect a device firmware version. While a change in DevRev may necessitate a new DD revision the Build number can be incremented independently of the DD changes. Also the Build DevRev and DDRev parameters may provide two degrees of freedom namely an ability to change DD files without releasing new device firmware and an ability to change device firmware without releasing new DD files. The Build numbering may be relative to the DevRev value. In other words firmware with a different DevRev revision may use the same Build to identify its firmware build variant within a device revision family. In particular embodiments any set of DD files with the same DevRev value can be used to represent a device in a host system where the highest DDRev value for a given DevRev value is the most recent DD revision.

A device application may contain at least one firmware download object which is used to upgrade the device application over a wireless connection. Multi processor devices can contain multiple firmware download objects such as when a dual processor device with a sensor actuator application on one processor and a radio communication stack on another processor contains two firmware download objects one for upgrading the sensor actuator software another for upgrading the radio communication stack . Table 7 illustrates the parameters of a firmware download object which might not be extensible by vendors .

In some embodiments WNSIA device vendors are required to provide device descriptors for their WNSIA devices. The device descriptors define the number of transducer blocks their types and all parameters of each transducer block. The Foundation Fieldbus DDL specifications may be used to define the device descriptors for the WNSIA devices. As a result developers may develop WNSIA device descriptors using the FF tokenizer toolkit and the FF standard DD library toolkit from the Fieldbus Foundation. Developers may develop devices such as the gateways that communicate with WNSIA field devices using the FF DD services toolkit from the Fieldbus Foundation.

In particular embodiments the WNSIA device descriptors may include a subset of the DDL constructs defined in the FF DDL specification such as Specification FF 900 which is hereby incorporated by reference . For example the DDL constructs that may be used in WNSIA device descriptors could include the BLOCK VARIABLE MENU EDIT DISPLAY METHOD RELATION UNIT REFRESH WRITE AS ONE ITEM ARRAY COLLECTION RECORD ARRAY RESPONSE CODE LIKE keyword and EXPRESSION constructs. As another example the DDL constructs that may not be used in WNSIA device descriptors could include the PROGRAM DOMAIN VARIABLE LIST OPEN CLOSE keywords and possibly CONDITIONAL constructs.

To facilitate the generation of WNSIA device descriptors by vendors manufacturers or other entities associated with wireless field devices standard wireless DD files could be made available or provided to the entities. These standard DD files could be provided for each transducer block type analog input analog output digital input digital output and the standard files may be imported into WNSIA device DDL source files. The vendors manufacturers or other entities could add their own device specific parameters to the standard DD files such as by using the ADD DELETE and REDEFINE DDL constructs to add delete or modify the attributes of a block. The vendors manufacturers or other entities could be prevented from deleting any of the standard or required attributes of the imported standard DD files although they could be redefined using the REDEFINE construct . The Foundation Fieldbus Specification FF 901 which is hereby incorporated by reference provides additional information about these constructs and their attributes.

DD developers could rely on a set of specifications tools and standard files to produce WNSIA device descriptors. The standard specifications may include the FF DDL source language specification which specifies a structured text language used to define the meaning and relationships between available wireless field device data. It also specifies the syntax of the language used in WNSIA DDL source files. Another standard specification is the FF DDL binary encoding specification which specifies a standard encoding of DDL source files into a binary file format. Device specifications could also be used where the device specifications are used to customize standard wireless DDL files and produce vendor manufacturer or other entity specific device descriptors for given device types. Once created DDL source files may be tokenized into binary format and delivered to a host system which uses FF DD services libraries to interpret information contained in the binary WNSIA DDL files.

Although illustrate example details of the WNSIA protocol used in the process control system various changes may be made to . For example other or additional divisions between objects could be used in place of or in addition to the divisions shown in . Also other or additional protocol stacks could be used in place of or in addition to the stacks shown in . In addition other or additional parameters could be contained in the tables described above.

In some embodiments various functions described above are implemented or supported by a computer program that is formed from computer readable program code and that is embodied in a computer readable medium. The phrase computer readable program code includes any type of computer code including source code object code and executable code. The phrase computer readable medium includes any type of medium capable of being accessed by a computer such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM a hard disk drive a compact disc CD a digital video disc DVD or any other type of memory.

It may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document. The term couple and its derivatives refer to any direct or indirect communication between two or more elements whether or not those elements are in physical contact with one another. The terms application and program refer to one or more computer programs software components sets of instructions procedures functions objects classes instances related data or a portion thereof adapted for implementation in a suitable computer code including source code object code or executable code . The terms transmit receive and communicate as well as derivatives thereof encompass both direct and indirect communication. The terms include and comprise as well as derivatives thereof mean inclusion without limitation. The term or is inclusive meaning and or. The phrases associated with and associated therewith as well as derivatives thereof may mean to include be included within interconnect with contain be contained within connect to or with couple to or with be communicable with cooperate with interleave juxtapose be proximate to be bound to or with have have a property of or the like. The term controller means any device system or part thereof that controls at least one operation. A controller may be implemented in hardware firmware software or some combination of at least two of the same. The functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed whether locally or remotely.

While this disclosure has described certain embodiments and generally associated methods alterations and permutations of these embodiments and methods will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the above description of example embodiments does not define or constrain this disclosure. Other changes substitutions and alterations are also possible without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure as defined by the following claims.

