---

title: Broadcasting receiver having freeze function and a method thereof
abstract: A broadcasting receiver having a freeze function and a method thereof. The broadcasting receiver has an operation reception unit receiving predetermined operation signals; a graphic driver unit continuously outputting one frame of same image signal and/or one frame of same additional data, according to a freezing command input through the operation reception unit; a scaler unit scaling the one frame of same image signal and/or the one frame of same additional data; a display unit displaying the one frame of same image signal and/or the one frame of same additional data as scaled; an on-screen-display (OSD) generation unit producing OSD data corresponding to a predetermined external operation signal input through the operation reception unit; and a control unit controlling the graphic driver unit to blend the OSD data with the one frame of same image signal and/or the one frame of same additional data and output them as blended.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07787052&OS=07787052&RS=07787052
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 07787052
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20060309
---
This application claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of Korean Patent Application No. 2005 24561 filed Mar. 24 2005 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a broadcasting receiver having a freeze function and a method thereof. More particularly the present invention relates to a broadcasting receiver having a freeze function capable of displaying updated additional information offered by a broadcasting station on a screen by updating an on screen display OSD menu by a user even in a frozen state of an image and a method thereof.

Generally a broadcasting receiver such as a television processes a broadcasting signal transmitted from a broadcasting station and thereby enables a user to receive various information transmitted by the broadcasting station regardless of the user s age and position. Such a broadcasting receiver is equipped with a freeze function that converts a moving picture to a still image.

Referring to the conventional broadcasting receiver comprises a broadcasting signal reception unit an image signal process unit an operation reception unit an on screen display OSD generation unit a scaler unit a control unit and a display unit .

Among broadcasting signals transmitted from a predetermined broadcasting station the broadcasting signal reception unit receives a broadcasting signal corresponding to a channel selected by control of the control unit which will be descried hereinafter. The image signal process unit processes an image signal included in the broadcasting signals. An audio signal process unit not shown processes an audio signal included in the broadcasting signal. The processed audio signal is output through an audio output unit not shown such as a speaker.

The operation reception unit is input with external operation for controlling the operation of the broadcasting receiver by a user and transmits the input operation to the control unit . The OSD generation unit produces OSD data corresponding to an external operation signal input through the operation reception unit . The scaler unit scales the processed image signal and the OSD data. The display unit displays the scaled image signal and the OSD data as an image and an OSD menu on a screen.

The control unit controls the broadcasting signal reception unit to select a broadcasting signal corresponding to the selected channel and also controls the image signal process unit to process the image signal included in the broadcasting signal. Furthermore the control unit controls the scaler unit to scale the OSD data produced by the OSD generation unit and the processed image signal.

When a freezing command is received through the operation reception unit the image and the OSD menu being currently displayed on the screen do not change and this state is called a frozen state. In other words the control unit controls the scaler unit to display the image signal and the OSD data corresponding to time of receiving the freezing command. The frozen state is maintained until another predetermined external operation signal is received through the operation reception unit . When the user inputs a predetermined external operation signal using a remote controller not shown and a key pad not shown the frozen state is released and therefore the broadcasting receiver processes and keeps displaying on the screen the image signal included in the received broadcasting signal and the OSD data produced by the OSD generation unit .

Upon receiving the freezing command the OSD menu as well as the image is displayed in the frozen state. In this state the user is not able to update contents being displayed by changing the OSD menu through the remote controller not shown and the key pad not shown . Moreover if a broadcasting receiver for digital broadcasting which is common nowadays gets into the frozen state the image the additional information and the OSD menu cannot be separately controlled so that the user may not be able to use the various additional information offered by the broadcasting station.

An aspect of the present invention is to solve at least the above problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present invention is to provide a broadcasting receiver having a freeze function capable of displaying updated additional information offered by a broadcasting station on a screen by updating an on screen display OSD menu according to an external operation signal input by a user even in a frozen state and a method thereof.

In order to achieve the above described aspects of the present invention there is provided a broadcasting receiver comprising an operation reception unit receiving predetermined operation signals a graphic driver unit continuously outputting at least one between one frame of a same image signal and one frame of a same additional data according to a freezing command input through the operation reception unit a scaler unit scaling at least one between the one frame of the same image signal and the one frame of the same additional data a display unit presenting on a screen at least one between the one frame of the same image signal and the one frame of the same additional data as scaled an on screen display OSD generation unit producing OSD data corresponding to a predetermined external operation signal input through the operation reception unit and a control unit controlling the graphic driver unit to blend the OSD data with at least one between the one frame of the same image signal and the one frame of the same additional data and output them as blended data.

The graphic driver unit comprises an image buffer storing an image signal included in a predetermined broadcasting signal an image canvas part reading out the one frame of same image signal from the image buffer part thereby generating an image layer a data buffer part storing additional data included in the broadcasting signal a data canvas part according to an external operation signal for selecting one additional data reading out the one additional data among the additional data stored in the data buffer part thereby generating a data layer an OSD canvas part generating an OSD layer using OSD data generated by the OSD generation unit and a blending part blending at least one of the image layer and the data layer with the OSD layer and outputting the blended layer.

The control unit outputs at least one of the image layer the data layer and the OSD layer as a frozen state and updates and outputs at least one layer.

The control unit continuously receives the broadcasting signal upon being input with the freezing command stores the image signal included in the broadcasting signal to the image buffer part and transmits the stored image signal to a predetermined external device.

The control unit upon being input with the freezing command continuously receives the broadcasting signal stores the additional data included in the broadcasting signal to the data buffer part and transmits the stored additional data to a predetermined external device.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a freezing method in a broadcasting receiver comprising receiving predetermined operation signals upon receiving a freezing command among the operational signals continuously outputting at least one between one frame of same image signal and one frame of same additional data scaling the one frame of same image signal and the one frame of same additional data displaying on a screen the one frame of same image signal and the one frame of same additional data as scaled generating OSD data corresponding to the predetermined external operation signals and blending the OSD data with the one frame of same image signal and the one frame of same additional data and outputting them as blended data.

The freezing method may further comprise storing at least one of the image signal and the additional data included in the predetermined broadcasting signals reading out the one frame of same image signal and the one frame of same additional data from the stored image signal and the additional data thereby generating at least one of an image layer and a data layer generating an OSD layer using the generated OSD data and blending the OSD layer with at least one of the image layer and the data layer and outputting them as blended layers.

In the blending and outputting step at least one of the image layer the data layer and the OSD layer is output as a frozen state according to the freezing command and at least one of the layers is updated and output.

The freezing method may further comprise upon input of the freezing command continuously receiving the broadcasting signals and storing the image signal included in the broadcasting signals and transmitting the stored image signal to a predetermined external device.

The freezing method may further comprise upon input of the freezing command continuously receiving the broadcasting signals and storing the additional data included in the broadcasting signals and transmitting the stored additional data to a predetermined external device.

Hereinafter an exemplary embodiment of the present invention will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawing figures.

In the following description same drawing reference numerals are used for the same elements even in different drawings. The matters defined in the description such as a detailed construction and elements are nothing but the ones provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of the invention. Thus it is apparent that the present invention can be carried out without those defined matters. Also well known functions or constructions are not described in detail since they would obscure the invention in unnecessary detail.

Referring to the broadcasting receiver of this embodiment comprises a broadcasting signal reception unit an image signal process unit a data process unit an on screen display OSD generation unit an operation reception unit a control unit a graphic driver unit a scaler unit and a display unit .

The broadcasting reception unit receives broadcasting signals transmitted from a predetermined broadcasting station according to control of the control unit which will be described hereinafter. The broadcasting signals are transmitted from the broadcasting station to the broadcasting receiver through terrestrial wave wired connection or a satellite. The broadcasting signals comprise an image signal for displaying an image an audio signal for outputting sound and additional data for supplying various additional information. The broadcasting signal reception unit demodulates the broadcasting signal to a baseband signal and then separately outputs the image signal the audio signal and the additional data.

The additional data comprises signals including Multimedia Hypermedia information coding Expert Group MHEG data offering various additional information Multimedia Home Platform MHP data and subtitle data. The MHEG refers to a standardized code of multimedia and hypermedia information for offering application services through various types of media compatibly. The MHP refers to a standard for combining a digital broadcasting with the internet and the web.

The image signal process unit receives the image signal from the broadcasting signal reception unit and processes the received image signal. An audio signal process unit not shown receives the audio signal from the broadcasting signal reception unit and processes the received audio signal. The processed audio signal is output through an audio output unit not shown such as a speaker. The data process unit receives the additional data from the broadcasting signal reception unit and processes the received additional data.

The OSD generation unit produces OSD data constituting an OSD menu which is used to operate the broadcasting receiver. In other words the OSD generation unit produces OSD data corresponding to an external operation signal received through the operation reception unit that will be described hereinafter.

The operation reception unit is input with the external operation signal for controlling the operation of the broadcasting receiver and transmits the input external operation signal to the control unit . The external operation signal comprises a freezing command for converting a moving picture to a still image and a releasing command for canceling the frozen state of the image. The operation reception unit receives the freezing command input by a user through a remote controller not shown and a key pad not shown and transmits the freezing command to the control unit . In the frozen state when another external operation signal other than the releasing command is input the operation reception unit receives and transmits to the control unit the other external operation signal.

The graphic driver unit blends and outputs the image signal the additional data and the OSD data and performs a freeze function according to control of the control unit . More specifically upon receiving the freezing command the graphic driver unit continuously outputs one frame of the same image signal according to control by the control unit so that the image being displayed on a screen looks like a still image.

When the additional data is transmitted from the broadcasting station and displayed on the screen together with the image signal the graphic driver unit outputs the image signal or the additional data selectively according to the freezing command. More specifically as the user inputs the freezing command for converting the moving picture to the still image the graphic driver unit blends the additional data being updated in real time with the one frame of the same image signal and outputs the additional data and the image signal as blended data. Or upon input of the freezing command by the user the graphic driver unit blends the image signal being updated in real time with the one frame of the same additional data and outputs them as blended data.

When the OSD data produced by the OSD generation unit is input in the frozen state through the external operation signal the graphic driver unit blends and outputs the OSD data with the image signal and the additional data.

The scaler unit receives and scales the image signal the additional data and the OSD data being output from the graphic driver unit . The display unit presents the scaled image signal additional data and OSD data as the image additional information and OSD menu on the screen.

The control unit selects the broadcasting signal corresponding to a channel selected by the external operation signal and controls the broadcasting signal reception unit to separate the broadcasting signal into the image signal the audio signal and the additional data. Also the control unit controls the image signal process unit and the data process unit to process the image signal and the additional data respectively and produces the OSD data for constituting the OSD menu corresponding to the external operation signal input through the operation reception unit .

When the freezing command is input through the operation reception unit the control unit controls the graphic driver unit to output the one frame of same image signal. When the additional data is included in the broadcasting signal the control unit controls the graphic driver unit to output the one frame of same additional data together with the one frame of same image signal update the OSD data according to the input external operation signal and output the additional data together with the one frame of image signal.

For example when a movie and a subtitle for the movie are being displayed on the screen if the user inputs the freezing command one still image of the movie and the corresponding subtitle are displayed on the screen. If the user operates the remote controller not shown and the key pad not shown in order to check information on the movie the OSD menu corresponding to the user s operation is displayed on the screen. Therefore the user is able to search for the desired information through the OSD menu and check the information through the screen.

The graphic driver unit comprises an image buffer part a data buffer part an image canvas part a data canvas part an OSD canvas part and a blending part .

The image buffer part temporarily stores the image signal processed by the image signal process unit . The data buffer part temporarily stores the additional data processed by the data process unit .

The image canvas part reads out the image signal stored in the image buffer part and thereby generates one frame of image layer. The data canvas part reads out the additional data from the data buffer part and thereby generates one frame of data layer. The OSD canvas part generates one frame of OSD layer using the OSD data produced by the OSD generation unit .

The blending part blends the image layer the data layer and the OSD layer and transmits them as a blended layer to the scaler unit .

When the freezing command is input through the operation reception unit the control unit controls the image canvas part to output the image signal corresponding to the time of inputting the freezing signal and generates the same image layer continuously. Here the control unit controls the OSD canvas part to update the OSD layer according to the OSD data produced by the external operation signal and controls the blending part to blend the updated OSD layer with the image layer.

Furthermore the control unit controls the data canvas part to generate the data layer by reading out the additional data corresponding to desired additional information from the data buffer part . Also the control unit controls the blending part to blend the generated data layer with the image layer.

The control unit controls the graphic driver unit to continuously store in the image buffer part the image signal included in the broadcasting signal received from the broadcasting station and continuously store in the data buffer part the additional data. Thus the stored image signal and the additional data are transmitted to a predetermined external device not shown according to a transmission command by a user such that the user can control the image and the additional information through the external device.

Referring to first the control unit controls the respective units and to process the image signal and the additional data included in the broadcasting signal received through the broadcasting signal reception unit and to display the processed signal and data on the screen as the image and the additional information S .

Upon receiving the freezing command through the operation reception unit S the control unit controls the graphic driver unit to display the same image and additional information continuously. That is the graphic driver unit continuously outputs the same image signal and additional data corresponding to the time of receiving the freezing command S . If there is no freezing command input however the step S is repeated.

When another external operation signal other than the releasing command is received S the control unit controls the OSD generation unit and the graphic driver unit to generate the OSD data corresponding to the external operation signal and update the OSD menu respectively S . The control unit also controls the graphic driver unit to display the additional information selected by the external operation signal on the screen S . If there is no external operation signal input however the step S is repeated.

When the releasing command is received through the operation reception unit S the control unit controls the respective units and to process the image signal and the additional data included in the broadcasting signal transmitted from the broadcasting station and display the processed signal and data on the screen as the image and the additional information S . However if the releasing command is not received the steps S to S are repeated.

According to the above processes the additional information can be changed by displaying the OSD menu as updated by the external operation signal on the screen even in the frozen state.

As can be appreciated from the above description according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the operation of the broadcasting receiver can be controlled by displaying the OSD menu updated by the external operation signal received during the frozen state. Therefore the user can change the additional information being displayed on the screen and utilize the various additional information offered by the broadcasting station even during the frozen state.

While the invention has been shown and described with reference to certain exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

