---

title: System and method for establishing communication between wireless devices
abstract: A method of communication is disclosed and includes attempting to establish a connection with a destination wireless device. The method also includes determining that the destination wireless device does not include required software. Additionally, the method includes transmitting an indication to the destination wireless device that required software is necessary to establish the connection. Further, the method includes transmitting an indication to the destination wireless device that the originating wireless device is authorized with respect to a one-time download of the required software. The method also includes transmitting a request to a download server to download the required software to the destination wireless device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08107938&OS=08107938&RS=08107938
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08107938
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060224
---
The present disclosure generally relates to wireless devices. More particularly the disclosure relates to establishing communication between wireless devices.

Advances in technology have resulted in smaller and more powerful wireless devices. For example there currently exist a variety of wireless devices including mobile phones personal digital assistants PDAs laptops and paging devices that are small lightweight and easily carried by users. These devices may include the ability to transmit voice and or data over wireless networks. Further many such wireless devices provide significant computing capabilities and as such are becoming tantamount to small personal computers and hand held PDAs.

Typically these smaller and more powerful wireless devices are often resource constrained. For example the screen size the amount of available memory and file system space and the amount of input and output capabilities may be limited by the small size of the device. Because of such severe resource constraints it is can be desirable to maintain a limited size and quantity of software applications and other information residing on such wireless devices.

Some of these wireless devices utilize application programming interfaces APIs that are sometimes referred to as runtime environments and software platforms. The APIs can be installed onto a wireless device to simplify the operation and programming of such wireless devices by providing generalized calls for device resources. Further some APIs can provide software developers the ability to create software applications that are executable on such wireless devices. In addition APIs can provide an interface between a wireless device system hardware and the software applications. As such the wireless device functionality can be made available to the software applications by allowing the software to make a generic call for a function thus not requiring the developer to tailor its source code to the individual hardware or device on which the software is executing. Further some APIs can provide mechanisms for secure communications between wireless devices such as client devices and server systems using secure cryptographic key information.

Examples of such APIs some of which are discussed in more detail below include those currently publicly available versions of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW platform developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. The BREW platform can provide one or more interfaces to particular hardware and software features found on wireless devices.

Further the BREW platform can be used in an end to end software distribution system to provide a variety of benefits for wireless service operators software developers and wireless device manufacturers and consumers. One such currently available end to end software distribution system called the BREW solution developed by QUALCOMM Incorporated includes logic distributed over a server client architecture wherein the server can perform billing security and application distribution functionality and wherein the client can perform application execution security and user interface functionality.

In certain cases secure applications can be required to establish communication between a calling wireless device and a called wireless device. If the called wireless device does not include the secure application communication with the calling wireless device may be prevented.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide an improved system and method of establishing communication between wireless devices.

A method of communication is disclosed and includes attempting to establish a connection with a destination wireless device. The method also includes determining that the destination wireless device does not include required software. Additionally the method includes transmitting an indication to the destination wireless device that required software is necessary to establish the connection.

In a particular embodiment the method includes transmitting an indication to the destination wireless device that the originating wireless device is authorized with respect to a one time download of the required software. In yet another particular embodiment the method includes transmitting a request to a download server to download the required software to the destination wireless device. In still another particular embodiment the method includes receiving a response from the download server indicating that the required software was downloaded to the destination wireless device. Additionally in a particular embodiment the method includes establishing a connection with the destination wireless device using the required software.

In yet still another particular embodiment the method includes receiving a response from the download server indicating the required software was not downloaded to the destination wireless device. Further in a particular embodiment the method includes transmitting an indication to the destination wireless device that an attempted connection has been aborted.

In a particular embodiment the required software is a security application that includes a decoder and an encoder. In another particular embodiment the required software is a gaming application that allows two or more users to compete via wireless devices.

In another embodiment a method of communication is disclosed and includes receiving a call at a destination wireless device from an originating wireless device. Further the method includes determining that required software is needed to establish a connection with the originating wireless device. Additionally the method includes indicating to the originating wireless device that the required software is not present at the destination wireless device.

In yet another embodiment a method of downloading software is provided and includes receiving an indication from an originating wireless device to provide required software to a destination wireless device. Also in this embodiment the method includes transmitting an indication to the destination wireless device that the required software can be downloaded upon approval of the destination wireless device.

In still another embodiment a communication system is disclosed and includes an originating wireless device and a download server coupled to the originating wireless device. In this embodiment the download server includes a processor a computer readable medium that is accessible to the processor and a computer program that is embedded within the computer readable medium. Additionally in this embodiment the computer program includes instructions to receive a request from an originating wireless device to provide required software to a destination wireless device and instructions to download the required software to the destination wireless device.

In yet still another embodiment a wireless device is disclosed and includes a processor and a computer readable medium that is accessible to the processor. A computer program can be embedded within the computer readable medium. In this embodiment the computer program includes instructions to establish a connection with a destination wireless device instructions to determine that the destination wireless device does not include required software and instructions to authorize a one time use download of the required software.

In another embodiment a wireless device is disclosed and includes a processor and a computer readable medium that is accessible to the processor. Further a computer program can be embedded within the computer readable medium. In this embodiment the computer program includes instructions to receive a call from an originating wireless device instructions to determine that required software is needed to communicate with the originating wireless device instructions to indicate that the required software is not present and instructions to receive the required software from a download server.

In still another embodiment a graphical user interface for a wireless device is disclosed and includes a text message. In this embodiment the text message indicates that a call is unable to connect. Also the text message indicates that a destination device requires additional software. Additionally the text message includes a query to authorize a download to the destination telephone.

In yet another embodiment a graphical user interface for a wireless device is disclosed and includes a text message that can indicate that special software is required to establish a connection. The text message can further indicate that an originating device has authorized a download of the special software. Moreover the text message can include a query to download the special software.

In another embodiment a wireless device is disclosed and includes means for attempting to establish a connection with a destination wireless device means for determining that the destination wireless device does not include required software and means for transmitting an indication to the destination wireless device that required software is necessary to establish the connection.

In still another embodiment a wireless device is disclosed and includes means for receiving a call at a destination wireless device from an originating wireless device means for determining that required software is needed to establish a connection with the originating wireless device and means for indicating to the originating wireless device that the required software is not present at the destination wireless device.

In yet another embodiment a download server is disclosed and includes means for receiving an indication from an originating wireless device to provide required software to a destination wireless device and means for transmitting an indication to the destination wireless device that the required software can be downloaded upon approval of the destination wireless device.

An advantage of one or more of embodiments disclosed herein can include providing a way for an originating wireless device to authorize a download of required software to a destination wireless device.

Another advantage can include allowing an originating wireless device to authorize the download of required software to a destination wireless device for a one time only use.

Still another advantage can include allowing a user of an originating wireless device to pay for the download of required software to a destination wireless device.

Other aspects advantages and features of the present disclosure will become apparent after review of the entire application including the following sections Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description and the Claims.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a wireless device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein could be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both.

Further the embodiments described herein can additionally be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the disclosure may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform a certain action or code operable to perform the described action. The following detailed description describes methods systems software and apparatus used in connection with one or more wireless devices.

In one or more embodiments a wireless device may utilize a runtime environment such as a version of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software platform developed by QUALCOMM Inc. of San Diego Calif. In at least one embodiment in the following description the system used to provide communications between wireless devices and servers is implemented on a wireless device executing a runtime environment such as the current version of the BREW software platform. However one or more embodiments of the system used to provide communications between wireless devices and servers are suitable for use with other types of runtime environments that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless devices.

As illustrated in the wireless device can be a wireless telephone a personal digital assistant a pager or a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal. In a particular embodiment the pager can be a two way text pager. Further in an alternative embodiment the wireless device can have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The exemplary non limiting system can include any form of a remote module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards personal computers access terminals telephones with or without a display or keypad or any combination or sub combination thereof.

As depicted in the application download server is coupled to a network with other computer elements in communication with the wireless network . The system includes a second server and a stand alone server and each server can provide separate services and processes to the wireless devices across the wireless network . Further as indicated in the system also includes at least one stored application database that stores software applications that are downloadable by the wireless devices . Different embodiments are contemplated that locate logic to perform secure communications at any one or more of the application download server the second server and the stand alone server .

In a block diagram is shown that more fully illustrates the system including the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the system . The system is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules such as the wireless devices communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. The application download server and the stored application database along with any other servers such as server are compatible with wireless communication services and can communicate with a carrier network through a data link such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. In an illustrative embodiment the server contains a server security module that further contains logic configured to provide for secure communications over the carrier network . In a particular embodiment the server security module can operate in conjunction with a client security module located on a wireless device such as wireless devices to provide secure communications.

The carrier network controls messages sent as data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS network transfers voice information. The MSC is connected to multiple base transceiver stations BTS . The MSC can be connected to the BTS by both a data network for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless devices such as to wireless telephone by the short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art.

The wireless device has a computer platform that can receive and execute software applications transmitted from the application download server . The computer platform may be implemented as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC is installed at the time of manufacture of the wireless device. The ASIC or other processor can execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory ROM or RAM EEPROM flash memory or any other memory suitable for computer platforms.

The API also includes a client security module containing logic configured to provide for secure communications over the carrier network . In a particular embodiment the client security module can operate in conjunction with the server security module to provide secure communications. As illustrated in the computer platform can further include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . In an illustrative embodiment the local database is stored within a flash memory cell but it can be stored within any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape or floppy or hard disk.

A wireless device e.g. the wireless telephone can download one or more software applications such as games news stock monitors and the like from the application download server . Further the wireless device can store the downloaded applications in the local database when not in use and can load stored resident applications from the local database to memory for execution by the API when desired by the user. Further communications over the wireless network may be performed in a secure manner at least in part due to the interaction and operation of the client security module and the server security module . As shown in the API can also include a global positioning system GPS module and a reminder module .

As illustrated in the download server can include a processor and a computer readable medium e.g. a memory that is accessible to the processor . In a particular embodiment a computer program is embedded within the computer readable medium and can be used to control the downloads of applications to one or more of the wireless devices . More particularly when an originating wireless device requests the download of a required application to a destination wireless device the download server can transmit a message to the destination wireless device to indicate that the originating wireless device is requesting that required software be downloaded thereto. Also the download server can request that the destination wireless device or a user thereof allow the download of the require application. described in detail below illustrate exemplary non limiting methods that can be used to control the download of required applications to destination wireless devices.

Moving to decision step the originating wireless device determines whether the user has decided to disconnect with the destination wireless device. If not the method continues to block and the originating wireless device maintains the connection with destination wireless device. Otherwise the method proceeds to block and the originating device terminates the connection with destination wireless device. The method then ends at state .

Returning to decision step if the destination wireless device does not include the required software the method moves to block . At block the originating wireless device presents an indication to the user that the call has failed e.g. that the call cannot be connected unless required software is downloaded to the destination device. In a particular embodiment the required software can be security software e.g. software that requires an encoder and a decoder in order to facilitate communication between two wireless devices. In another embodiment the required software can be gaming software that will facilitate competition between the users of two or more wireless devices.

Proceeding to decision step the originating wireless device queries the user as to whether he or she will allow a download of the required software for a one time use. In a particular embodiment the user of the originating wireless device can also agree to pay for the download if necessary. If the user does not authorize download of the required software the method continues to block and the originating device transmits an indication that the call is aborted. The method then ends at state .

Returning to decision step if the user authorizes download of the required software the method proceeds to block and the originating wireless device transmits an indication to the destination wireless device that the required software will be downloaded from a download server. Continuing to block the originating device transmits a request to the download server to download the required software to the destination wireless device. At block the originating wireless device receives a response from download server.

Moving to decision step the originating wireless device determines whether the required software has been downloaded to the destination device. If not the method proceeds to block and the method continues as described herein. On the other hand if the required software has been downloaded the method proceeds to block and the originating wireless device establishes a connection with the destination wireless device using the required software. The method then continues as described herein.

Referring to a method of establishing communication between an originating wireless device and a destination wireless device is shown and commences at block . At block the destination wireless device receives a call from an originating wireless device. Moving to decision step the destination wireless device determines whether special software is required to connect and communicate with the originating wireless device. If not the method proceeds to block and the destination wireless device establishes a connection with the originating wireless device. The method then ends at state .

Returning to decision step if special software is required the method moves to decision step and the destination wireless device determines whether the required software is present at the destination wireless device. If so the method moves to block and the destination wireless device transmits an indication to the originating wireless device that the required software is present. The method then proceeds to block and continues as described herein.

Returning to decision step if the required software is not present the method moves to block and the destination wireless device transmits an indication to the originating wireless device that the required software is not present. Next at decision step the destination wireless device determines whether a response is received from the originating wireless device. If no response is received the method ends at state . If a response is received from the originating wireless device the method continues to decision step and the destination wireless device determines whether the required software is to be downloaded thereto. If not the method ends at state .

On the other hand if the required software is to be downloaded the method proceeds to block and the required software is received from a download server or optionally from another source such as from the originating device. Then at block the destination wireless device transmits an indication to the originating wireless device that the required software has been received. Moving to block the destination wireless device establishes a connection with the originating wireless device and the destination device can execute the downloaded software. The method then ends at state .

Moving to decision step the download server determines whether approval is received. If approval is not received from the destination wireless device the method moves to block and the download server transmits an indication to the originating wireless device that the destination wireless device has not approved download of the required software. The method then ends at state .

Returning to decision step if approval from the destination wireless device is received at the download server the method proceeds to block and the download server downloads the required software to the destination wireless device. Thereafter at block the download server receives an indication from the destination wireless device that the required software has been completely downloaded. Continuing to block the download server transmits an indication to the originating wireless device that the destination wireless device has received the required software. The method then ends at state .

Referring to an originating wireless device is shown and is generally designated . As shown the originating wireless device includes a display and a keypad . further illustrates an originating wireless device graphical user interface GUI that can be presented to a user via the display of the wireless device . As shown the originating wireless device GUI can include a screen header and a text message . In a particular embodiment the text message can state Unable to connect. Destination device requires additional software. Authorize download to destination telephone In an illustrative embodiment the user of the originating wireless can choose whether or not to authorize the download to the destination wireless device by selecting the yes soft button or the no soft button .

With the configuration of structure disclosed herein the system and method can allow a user of an originating wireless device to authorize the download of a required application from a download server to a destination wireless device in order to allow the destination wireless device to communicate with the originating wireless device. In a particular embodiment the required application can be a security application e.g. an application that includes a decoder and encoder in order to allow communication between two or more wireless devices. Additionally in a particular embodiment the required application can be a game that can allow two or more players at different wireless devices to compete with or against each other.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks configurations modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks configurations modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory PROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a wireless device or a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a wireless device or user terminal.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present disclosure. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features as defined by the following claims.

