---

title: Provision of QoS treatment based upon multiple requests
abstract: The claimed subject matter relates to providing quality of service treatment to a subscriber (e.g., wireless terminal) based upon requests made on behalf of the subscriber by a plurality of logically separate entities from the subscriber. For instance, two network infrastructure devices, such as application servers, can initiate separate requests for quality of service treatment on behalf of the subscriber. Additionally or alternatively, a subscriber-side device can initiate a request for quality of service treatment on behalf of the subscriber. A provider of the quality of service treatment can provide appropriate treatment to one or more traffic flows based at least in part upon the requests.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08509799&OS=08509799&RS=08509799
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 08509799
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060714
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 718 363 filed Sep. 19 2005 and entitled METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR THE UTILIZATION OF MOBILE NODES FOR STATE TRANSFER AS PART OF A HANDOFF OPERATION and U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60 796 653 filed on May 1 2006 and entitled A METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MOBILITY AWARE RESOURCE CONTROL Park . This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 288 597 filed Nov. 29 2005 and entitled METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR THE UTILIZATION OF MOBILE NODES FOR STATE TRANSFER U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 316 602 filed Dec. 22 2005 and entitled COMMUNICATIONS METHODS AND APPARATUS USING PHYSICAL ATTACHMENT POINT IDENTIFIERS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 316 376 filed Dec. 22 2005 and entitled COMMUNICATIONS METHODS AND APPARATUS USING PHYSICAL ATTACHMENT POINT IDENTIFIERS WHICH SUPPORT DUAL COMMUNICATIONS LINK U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 316 603 filed Dec. 22 2005 and entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR END NODE ASSISTED NEIGHBOR DISCOVER and U.S. Pat. No. 6 862 446 filed Feb. 18 2003 and entitled METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR THE UTILIZATION OF CORE BASED NODES FOR STATE TRANSFER. This application is additionally related to the following co filed patent applications Ser. No. 11 487 446 entitled PROVISION OF A MOVE INDICATION TO A RESOURCE REQUESTER Park et al. Ser. No. 11 486 649 entitled PACKET ROUTING IN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS ENVIRONMENT Park et al. Ser. No. 11 486 650 entitled STATE SYNCHRONIZATION BETWEEN ACCESS ROUTERS Tsirtsis et al. and Ser. No. 11 486 655 entitled STATE SYNCHRONIZATION BETWEEN ACCESS ROUTERS Tsirtsis et al. . The entireties of each of the aforementioned applications and patent are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention relates generally to communications systems and more particularly to providing refined quality of service with respect to one or more traffic flows associated with a terminal.

Communication networks such as wireless communication networks broadband networks and any other suitable networks are utilized in connection with transferring data wherein data can include word processing files streaming video multimedia files voice data and or the like. Providing appropriate quality of service QoS to certain subscribers can be important for retaining customer satisfaction as well as optimizing resources associated with one or more network links. In wireless networks however providing appropriate QoS can be difficult as QoS support must be considered in connection with units that are transitioning between different access nodes e.g. base stations access routers or access points . Thus providing appropriate QoS treatment to a wireless terminal is a nontrivial case.

In a typical wireless communications network a set of geographically dispersed access nodes e.g. base stations provide wireless access to a communications infrastructure for a plurality of end nodes e.g. wireless terminals . Cellular network systems have traditionally been primarily based on circuit switch technology but a variety of emerging cellular network systems are more heavily based on packet switched technology e.g. the Internet Protocol IP suite . In such networks flexible QoS differentiation mechanisms are needed to effectively support a variety of different applications e.g. telephony text messaging streaming audio video web browsing file transfer . . . . QoS mechanisms designed primarily for use in fixed hard wired packet switched network infrastructures are not well suited for use in a cellular network. In particular aspects such as mobility of subscriber access devices the potentially constrained nature of a wireless access link and differences in network architecture impede or preclude use of existing resource control protocols in wireless packet switched networks.

In connection with requesting QoS support with respect to a particular subscriber conventional networks utilize a centralized entity or a subscriber with respect to such requests. For instance if a subscriber needs certain QoS support such subscriber requests such support from a provider of QoS support. These conventional methods for requesting and receiving QoS support are inflexible and inefficient.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the claimed subject matter. This summary is not an extensive overview and is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of the claimed subject matter. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The claimed subject matter relates to provision of quality of service QoS treatment with respect to a subscriber based upon multiple requests wherein such requests are made by entities that are logically separate from the subscriber. For example two different network infrastructure devices can request quality of service treatment with respect to traffic flow s associated with the subscriber wherein such requests are provided to a QoS provider e.g. a base station . The QoS provider can thereafter provide QoS treatment to the traffic flow s based at least in part upon the multiple requests. Additionally the provider can simultaneously provide the subscriber with QoS treatment for different traffic flows based upon the requests. In another example at least one of the multiple requestors can be a subscriber side device such as a host.

In accordance with an aspect a method for controlling quality of service resources with respect to a terminal can comprise receiving a first request pertaining to quality of service with respect to a subscriber from a first requester receiving a second request pertaining to quality of service with respect to the subscriber from a second requester and simultaneously controlling quality of service resources with respect to the wireless terminal as a function of the first and second requests. Additionally a wireless communications device is disclosed herein wherein the wireless communications device can comprise means for receiving a first request relating to quality of service from a first requester and means for receiving a second request relating to quality of service from a second requester. For example at least one of the first and second requests can be made on behalf of a subscriber. The wireless communications device can also comprise means for simultaneously controlling quality of service resources with respect to the subscriber as a function of the first and second requests.

In accordance with another aspect a processor can be configured to execute instructions for receiving a first request relating to quality of service treatment with respect to a subscriber wherein the first request is generated by a first requester. The processor can also be configured to execute instructions for receiving a second request relating to quality of service treatment with respect to the subscriber wherein the second request is generated by a second requester. Moreover the processor can be configured to execute instructions for providing quality of service treatment to the subscriber based at least in part upon the first and second request.

In accordance with yet another aspect a machine readable medium can have machine executable instructions stored thereon for receiving a first request from a first network infrastructure device pertaining to quality of service treatment to provide to a wireless terminal and receiving a second request from a second network infrastructure device pertaining to quality of service treatment to provide to the wireless terminal. The machine readable medium can also have instructions retained thereon for providing quality of service treatment to at least one traffic flow associated with the wireless terminal based at least in part upon one or more of the first and second requests. Additionally a wireless communications apparatus can comprise a memory that retains instructions for receiving first and second requests pertaining to quality of service with respect to a wireless terminal wherein the first and second requests are created by separate entities and at least one of the requests is made on behalf of the wireless terminal. The wireless communications apparatus can also include a processor that executes the instructions and analyzes contents of the first and second requests in connection with providing quality of service treatment with respect to the wireless terminal for at least one traffic flow.

In accordance with still yet another aspect a method for receiving requested quality of service treatment in a wireless communications environment can comprise receiving quality of service treatment with respect to a first traffic flow from a provider based at least in part upon a first request made by a first requester. The method can additionally comprise receiving quality of service treatment with respect to a second traffic flow from the provider based at least in part upon a second request made by a second requester. Furthermore disclosed herein is a communications device wherein the communications device comprises means for receiving quality of service treatment with respect to a first traffic flow wherein the quality of service treatment is based upon a first request made by a first requester on behalf of the communications device. The communications device can also include means for simultaneously receiving quality of service treatment with respect to a second traffic flow wherein the quality of service treatment is based upon a second request made by a second requester on behalf of the communications device.

In accordance with another aspect a processor can be configured to execute instructions for receiving a first traffic flow that is subject to quality of service treatment as requested by a first requester on behalf of a subscriber and receiving a second traffic flow that is subject to quality of service treatment as requested by a second requester. Additionally a machine readable medium is described below wherein the machine readable medium has stored thereon instructions for receiving quality of service treatment with respect to a first traffic flow from a provider based at least in part upon a first request made by a first requester. The machine readable medium can also retain instructions for receiving quality of service treatment with respect to a second traffic flow from the provider based at least in part upon a second request made by a second requester.

In accordance with yet another aspect a wireless communications apparatus can comprise a memory that retains instructions for receiving first and second traffic flows wherein the first and second traffic flows are subject to quality of service treatment based upon first and second requests generated by first and second requesters. The wireless communications apparatus can also include a processor that executes the instructions and provides a user with the first and second traffic flows.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the claimed subject matter may be employed and the claimed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that such subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Furthermore various aspects are described herein in connection with a terminal. A terminal can also be called a system a user device a subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal user agent or user equipment. A user device can be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability a module within a terminal or other processing device connected to a wireless modem.

Moreover aspects of the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer or computing components to implement various aspects of the claimed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving voice mail or in accessing a network such as a cellular network. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of what is described herein.

Referring now to a system that facilitates provision of appropriate QoS treatment to a subscriber is illustrated. As used herein the term subscriber is intended to encompass for example an individual a billable entity and or a communications apparatus. System enables network entities such as application servers to request QoS support management on behalf of a subscriber and additionally enables a host associated with the subscriber to request QoS support and or management. Thus requests for QoS support and or management can originate from network infrastructure or a host that is requesting access to the network. System includes a provider which can provide QoS support to a subscriber that is communicatively coupled thereto. Provider and subscriber can communicate by way of a link which can be a wireless link a wirelined link and or a combination thereof e.g. a mobile device that communicates with a router by way of WiFi and the router communicates with a provider .

In an example subscriber may be an individual that is associated with a subscription for certain services of a network. In a different embodiment subscriber can be a mobile handset a telephone that is coupled to a router etc. Provider for instance can be a base station a router a modem or any other network device that is employed to provide data messages packets etc. to subscriber . In an example provider and subscriber can communicate by way of FLASH OFDM. It is understood however that any suitable data transmission protocols are contemplated by the inventors and are intended to fall under the scope of the hereto appended claims.

System can also include a first network entity which for instance can be an application server that can provide certain applications or application service s to subscriber by way of provider . For example first network entity can be a games server that is utilized to provide certain gaming data to subscriber by way of provider . System can also include a second network entity . For example second network entity can be a streaming media server that provides access to audio and or video content to subscriber . It is understood however that first and second entities and can be any suitable entities that reside within a network.

Pursuant to an example first network entity can send a request for QoS resources to provider wherein such request relates to QoS with respect to subscriber . In other words first network entity can make a QoS resource request on behalf of subscriber . Provider can thereafter determine for example whether subscriber is authorized with respect to QoS parameters indicated within the request. Provider can further determine for example whether first network entity is authorized to make the particular QoS resource request on behalf of the subscriber . If authorization checks are passed then provider can be employed to provide appropriate QoS to traffic flows that are delivered to subscriber wherein traffic flow can be defined as related packets of data as indicated within packet headers .

Second network entity can additionally send a request for particular QoS resources to provider on behalf of subscriber . For instance second network entity may be employed to provide data to subscriber by way of provider wherein such data should be associated with particular QoS parameters e.g. latency minimum data rate maximum data rate . . . . Thus provider can receive requests from separate network entities on behalf of a subscriber. For instance such requests can be received and serviced at substantially similar times such as when a user is undertaking a voice call and downloading data from the Internet . Additionally while not shown subscriber can be associated with a host that requests QoS support and or undertakes QoS management on behalf of subscriber by delivering a request to provider . Such request can be provided and or services at a substantially similar time as other requests e.g. from first and or second network entity and .

The above described flexibility in requesting QoS support can be enabled through one or more protocols. For instance a substantially similar protocol can be utilized by first and second network entities and as is used by a host associated with subscriber . The protocol can include message formats that can be utilized by internal network entities as well as hosts on a periphery of a network and understood by provider . One example protocol that can be employed is a MARC protocol which has been designed to accommodate subscriber mobility such as when subscriber alters points of attachment within a network. The MARC protocol defines various messaging formats that facilitate subscriber mobility for example in an packet switched mobile environment. Each message request can include a common message header followed by a variable number of typed objects where presence order and number of typed objects is based at least in part upon message type as identified in the message header . Each typed object can include a common object header followed by a variable number of object specific fields. Various message types can be utilized including an add request message which is an example of what is sent to provider with respect to requesting particular QoS treatment for a traffic flow to and or from subscriber . Additionally a modify request message can relate to modifying existing QoS treatment with respect to one or more traffic flows associated with subscriber and a delete request message can relate to deleting existing QoS treatments. QoS treatments encompass particular services as well as filter rules to identify data packets subject to certain services. Below is an example of an add request in accordance with a protocol that may be utilized in connection with system .

In this example an INTEGRITY object is an object that facilitates ensuring integrity of the add request. An INTEGRITY object can include a timestamp an index that identifies a security attribute for validation of message integrity and an integrity check value which can enable validation of message integrity. A REQ ID object is a requester identifier which can include an IP address of a requester. A PROV ID object is a provider identifier which can include an IP address of a provider. A SUB ID object is a subscriber identifier object which can include an IP address of a subscriber. An SS ID object is a subscriber service identifier object which can identify one of several subscriber services. The Addition s fields relate to particular services or filter rules that are requested by the requester. For instance the above add message can describe that filter rules and service class instances are desirably added and such filter rules and service class instances can be specifically provided in the add message through use of an SCI Object service class object and FR Object filter rule object . An SCI Object can include a service class identifier and an amount of time that the service class should be maintained by the provider in the absence of being refreshed. An FR Object can include an identifier of a particular filter rule a priority to be associated with the rule and various match criteria.

Turning now to a flexible system that enables request of QoS resources and or request for QoS management on behalf of a subscriber to occur from multiple separate entities. System includes provider which as described above may be a base station in a wireless communications environment. Additionally provider can be router a modem or any other suitable access node within a wireless or wirelined network. System can also include a network entity such as an application server that creates a QoS resource request and sends it to provider wherein the request pertains to a subscriber . In the example system subscriber is encapsulated with and or behind a host which interfaces to a network by way of provider . For example subscriber may be a PCMCIA card or other suitable card a communications device coupled to a computer or any other suitable device while host may be a computer a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant etc.

Host like network entity can create a request for QoS resources and or QoS management and provide such request to provider . Therefore different logical entities can create a request on behalf of subscriber with respect to QoS. Additionally such entities e.g. network entity and host can reside on different portions with respect to a network. In other words network entity can reside within a network infrastructure while host can reside on a subscriber side of an access link to from a network. As described above host can communicate with provider by way of a wireless link for instance. Additionally a protocol utilized by host to provide the QoS request to provider can be substantially similar to a protocol utilized to relay a request by network entity . In different situations it may be desirable to allow different entities to request QoS support for subscriber and system provides such flexibility as a request can for QoS support management on behalf of subscriber can initiate from one or more network entities and or a host.

Now referring to an example system that illustrates requesting and provisioning of QoS resources is illustrated. System includes a base station which is utilized in connection with providing network services to a subscriber . In wireless environments one or more base stations are utilized to provide geographic regions of coverage to one or more wireless communication devices. Typically base stations are arranged such that a large continuous geographic region is provided with wireless network coverage. Base station includes a transmitter and receiver for instance to enable base station to provide subscriber with data and receive data from subscriber . Base station acts as an access node to a network. Subscriber is associated with a host device which may be a mobile device a personal computer or other suitable host device.

System additionally includes multiple application servers that can e.g. if associated with a subscription of the subscriber be utilized in connection with providing certain services to subscriber . In a detailed example application server may be a gaming server thereby providing subscriber with data relating to one or more video games. Application server may be associated with voice calls and application server can be a web server for instance. To optimize receipt and or delivery of data by way of application servers while not wasting network resources QoS parameters relating to data provided between base station and subscriber should be tightly controlled. However different applications provided by application servers should be associated with different QoS parameters. For example voice data does not need a substantial amount of bandwidth but latency should be low. In another example gaming data may utilize three traffic flows operating in parallel to enable appropriate play of the game. In still another example downloading a file may not require low latency but may need substantial bandwidth to receive a file in a timely manner. Thus each of the application servers may provide requests relating to particular QoS parameters that should exist between base station and subscriber . Base station can thereafter be employed to provide requested QoS treatment to traffic flows that are interchanged between base station and subscriber if subscriber is authorized for such services and or QoS .

Moreover host can detect that subscriber is not receiving appropriate QoS treatment with respect to one or more data flows given current state of subscriber . Additionally or alternatively subscriber can detect incorrect treatment of data flows and provide host with an indication that QoS treatment with respect to one or more data flows should be updated. Host can then create such request and then be utilized in connection with relaying the request to base station . In another example host can generate QoS requests based upon requirements of applications running on host . In such a case an application running on host can send requests by way of an application programming interface API .

Base station can thereafter provide appropriate QoS treatment to subscriber according to contents of the request. Thus as can be discerned multiple network entities and or a host can request QoS support and or management on behalf of a subscriber and base station can receive and service such requests. For instance base station can service requests simultaneously e.g. provide appropriate QoS treatment to multiple traffic flows based upon multiple requests from several entities .

Referring to methodologies relating to communications in a network environment are illustrated. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance with one or more embodiments occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all illustrated acts may be utilized to implement a methodology in accordance with the claimed subject matter.

Turning specifically to a methodology for providing QoS for a subscriber based upon one or more requests made by multiple entities is illustrated. The methodology begins at and at a first request is received from a first requester wherein the first request pertains to QoS with respect to a subscriber. For instance the first requester can be an entity within a network infrastructure such as an application server. In another example the first requester can be a subscriber a host another application server or any other suitable network entity. The QoS request can relate to one or more traffic flows to and or from the aforementioned subscriber. At a second request is received from a second requester relating to QoS with respect to the subscriber wherein the request is generated on behalf of such subscriber. Again the requester can be an application server or other suitable entity within a network infrastructure or can be a subscriber side device such as a personal computer a mobile handset etc. In an example the request provided by the first requester and the request provided by the second requester can be associated with a substantially similar protocol e.g. MARC .

At QoS is provided with respect to the subscriber based at least in part upon the first and second requests. For example the first and second requests can be delivered to a provider such as a base station. The provider can then provide the subscriber with QoS parameters defined within the request whether such parameters are strictly defined or relative . The methodology then completes at .

With reference to a methodology for receiving QoS treatment based at least in part upon one or more requests for QoS support management is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at a subscriber is communicatively coupled to a QoS provider. For instance the subscriber and provider can be communicatively coupled by way of a wireless link e.g. within a FLASH OFDM system . In another example the coupling can be wired in nature such as through Ethernet cable or other suitable coaxial cable a digital subscriber line or any other suitable cable. At QoS treatment is received with respect to at least one traffic flow that is associated with the subscriber wherein the treatment is provided in response to a request that is initiated by a first requester. The requester can be a host an infrastructure device such as an application server and or the like. At additional QoS treatment is received with respect to at least one traffic flow associated with the subscriber wherein the additional QoS treatment is provided in response to a request that is initiated by a second requester. Again such requester can be a host an application server an advertising server etc. Thus QoS treatment is provided to a subscriber based at least in part upon separate requests for such treatment wherein the separate requests are provided by different entities. The methodology then completes at .

Turning now to collectively systems are provided that relate to provision of particular QoS treatment with respect to a subscriber. The systems are represented as a series of interrelated functional blocks which can represent functions implemented by a processor software hardware firmware or any suitable combination thereof. Referring specifically to a system that facilitates provision of QoS treatment based upon multiple requests on behalf of a subscriber is illustrated. In an example a provider such as a base station can comprise system . System includes logical module s for receiving a first request from a first requester wherein such request can be made on behalf of a subscriber with respect to QoS support for the subscriber e.g. the request relates to QoS treatment provided to incoming outgoing data from the subscriber . Logical module s can include for instance an antenna a network port a processor memory software hardware firmware and or any other suitable modules that may be utilized in connection with receiving the first request. System additionally includes logical module s for receiving a second request relating to QoS from a second requester wherein the second request is made on behalf of the subscriber. For example the requester can be an application server a host associated with the subscriber etc. Module s like logical module s can include an antenna a network port a receiver chain and or the like.

System can additionally include logical module s for simultaneously controlling QoS with respect to a subscriber as a function of the first and second request . The terms providing QoS support QoS managing QoS and the like are intended to encompass traffic conditioning including metering marking policing queue management scheduling ARQ etc. Module s can include a processor memory a scheduling application that aids in scheduling data over a link and the like. Logical module s can also provide QoS support to the subscriber based upon multiple other requests. Moreover module s can be configured to provide QoS support with respect to multiple requests made by multiple requesters simultaneously.

Now turning to a system for receiving QoS treatment from a provider is illustrated. For instance a terminal end node can comprise system . System includes logical module s for receiving QoS treatment with respect to a first traffic flow wherein such module s can include an antenna software hardware that enables a link to be created between an access node e.g. base station and a subscriber device e.g. terminal. Additionally the first traffic flow can relate to a request for QoS support made by a first requester. System additionally includes logical module s for simultaneously receiving QoS treatment with respect to a second traffic flow wherein the second traffic flow can be associated with a request for QoS support made by a second requester. The module s can include an antenna a processor memory hardware software firmware and or the like.

Referring now to a system that aids in mobility management within a communications network is illustrated. While system is shown as including various modules or entities it is understood that in some aspects a subset of such entities can be utilized to perform functionality as described herein. System includes an access node which for instance can be a base station. Access node is communicatively coupled to a terminal which in turn is associated with a host . Terminal for instance can be a processor PCMCIA card and or memory card and host can be a device that includes the processor or memory card. In another example terminal and host can be separate entities such as a computer and a peripheral device e.g. desktop modem. It is also to be understood that terminal is communicatively coupled to access node only while terminal is within a coverage area of access node . For instance if terminal were to be geographically repositioned such terminal could alter points of attachment to a network e.g. communicatively couple to a disparate access node . Additionally while not shown terminal can be communicatively coupled to more than one access node during a single instance in time wherein one of such nodes is labeled as a primary node.

System can additionally include a home agent HA which can be employed to track where in a network terminal resides e.g. to support forwarding of packets to the terminal and or the host by way of the current point of attachment. For example if terminal alters a point of attachment home agent through various messaging can be made aware of such change in point of attachment. Home agent can be communicatively coupled to access node either by direct connection or through one or more other network entities. System can also include a network entity that may desirably provide data or services to terminal and or host . For example network entity can be an application server such as a gaming server that desirably provides particular traffic flows to terminal by way of access node .

The system can employ various mechanisms in connection with providing data to access node wherein such access node is the point of attachment at the IP layer with respect to terminal . For instance if an address e.g. IP address of access node is known e.g. by network entity then data can be provided directly to access node by way of such address. In other words it can be known that access node is a point of attachment for terminal e.g. one of several points of attachment for terminal . If address of access node is known then data packets intended for terminal or provided by terminal can be directed to an address associated with access node . Additionally packets e.g. control signaling and or messages pertaining to terminal and or host can be directed to an address associated with access node .

Often however as terminal is mobile within a network point of attachments can change. Thus network entities may not be aware of which access node is a current point of attachment for terminal and thus may be unaware a specific address. Additionally host may wish to relay data and or signaling to a particular entity but may not have knowledge of which access node is the current point of attachment or a current primary point of attachment . In one example access node can intercept messages that are addressed to different network entities but in actuality are intended for access node . In an example network entity may wish to provide a QoS request to a point of attachment associated with terminal but may not be aware that access node is such point of attachment. Accordingly network entity can for instance access home agent to determine which access node is currently associated with terminal .

Alternatively network entity can direct e.g. address a message to terminal or host and provide an indication in the message e.g. setting one or more header fields to a predetermined value such as a particular port number that while the message is directed to terminal or host it is actually intended for an access node that is the point of attachment for terminal . In some embodiments the indication includes use of a router alert option in the IP header. The indication can be a message that may be routed and or forwarded toward terminal by way of access node using a variety of techniques. The path taken by the message to access node can include one or more intermediate nodes e.g. home agent . When access node receives the message access node can analyze the message and determine e.g. based on inspection of one or more header fields that the message e.g. packet while addressed to terminal or host is in actuality intended for access node . Access node can then perform operations or determine whether to perform operations based at least in part upon contents of the received message. Additionally access node can create a message informing network entity that access node is for instance a primary point of attachment with respect to terminal where such message can inform network entity of an address associated with access node to enable subsequent message exchanges without the need to intercept messages directed to the terminal .

In another example host or another entity on a subscriber side of a network link can desirably provide a message to access node but may not be aware of an address of such access node. In another example host may be associated with wireless links between several access nodes and may desirably provide a message to one of such access nodes. Accordingly host can address a message to network entity indicating within such message that in actuality the message is intended to be received and analyzed by access node . Additionally or alternatively terminal can intercept the message encapsulate such message within a Logical Link Control LLC frame indicating that the message is intended for the base station .

In an example host may desirably request particular QoS support with respect to services provided by network entity . Accordingly host can create a message addressed to network entity and can indicate within the message that it is intended for access node even though the message is addressed to network entity . Example manners of indicating that a message is intended for access node are described above e.g. router alert within an IP header . One hop multicasting can also be employed in connection with providing a message to an appropriate point of attachment wherein such multicasting is described in greater detail below.

Turning now to an example system is provided that illustrates utilization of one hop message routing and or message interception and selective forwarding in connection with simultaneous connectivity to multiple points of attachment is illustrated. System includes a wireless terminal which is configured to create links to multiple base stations at a single instance in time if desirable. For example wireless terminal can be associated with multiple antennas and or can be in a wireless environment where multiple links to multiple base stations with respect to a single wireless terminal is supported e.g. FLASH OFDM . Thus for instance wireless terminal can be associated with wireless links to two base stations at a single point in time e.g. base station and base station . One of such base stations and may desirably be designated as a primary point of attachment e.g. at the IP layer . For example base station may be desirably designated as the primary point of attachment. In some instances however the primary point of attachment may not be the optimal base station by which to send received data rather base station may be utilized for transmission of data. Pursuant to an example it may be detected that signal to noise ratio associated with a link with base station is lower than signal to noise ratio associated with a link with base station . Accordingly a scheduling application associated with wireless terminal and or network infrastructure devices can cause data to be received sent at a non primary point of attachment. Thus at various intervals of time packets e.g. messages or frames can be sent received by way of either point of attachment as deemed preferred based on some criteria e.g. signal to noise ratio loading etc.

In some instances however it may be imperative to provide a specific point of attachment e.g. the primary point of attachment with certain packets e.g. messages or frames. For example a primary point of attachment should receive connect messages. In IP traffic however data is typically forwarded on a packet by packet basis using connectionless hop by hop routing such that a packet sent from terminal to a point of attachment e.g. either first base station or second base station is often destined for some other node and thus is in actuality subsequently relayed elsewhere. To address such an issue one hop multicasting can be utilized. For instance a host can provide messages or packets to one or more one hop multicast addresses. Often utilizing the one hop multicast address es is used to communicate with a function or entity on a directly connected link when a unicast address is unknown. In some instances however it may be desirable to direct certain packets e.g. packets addressed to a one hop multicast address to a particular point of attachment e.g. a primary point of attachment . In an embodiment packets originating from host can be inspected to determine if such packets should be delivered to a particular point of attachment amongst a plurality of points of attachment e.g. a primary point of attachment . As an example each packet provided from host that is directed towards a one hop multicast address can be directed to a primary point of attachment

Moreover as alluded to above interception can occur amongst network infrastructure devices in connection with communicating with points of attachment. For instance system can include a network entity which may desire to provide a message to a primary point of attachment with respect to wireless terminal but is not aware of identity and or address of such point of attachment .

In still another example base stations and can be communicatively coupled and act as routers switches or bridges. For instance a packet may desirably be provided to first base station but in actuality gets provided to second base station e.g. because the link from wireless terminal to second base station was substantially better at the time that the packet was transmitted. Base station can recognize by some indication within the packet that the packet is intended for base station and can relay or re direct such packet to first base station . For example a packet addressed to a one hop multicast address would typically not be forwarded beyond the direct link upon which it was sent. If second base station receives a packet addressed to a one hop multicast address and determines that packets sent to one hop multicast addresses should be provided to the first base station e.g. because first base station is designated as the primary point of attachment then second base station can re direct such packet to first base station e.g. encapsulate the received packet in another packet or frame addressed to first base station .

Turning now to an example LLC frame is illustrated. LLC frame can include a header portion which can comprise for instance an identifier of a base station or an indication that the frame should be forwarded to a particular entity or intercepted by a particular entity. LLC frame can also include a payload which may include requests for instance for certain QoS treatment with respect to particular traffic flows e.g. a QoS resource control message carried in an IP packet destined to a one hop multicast address. LLC frame can additionally include a trailer such as a CRC. Such frame can be employed to encapsulate a message when the initiator of such message does not have knowledge of an identity and or address of a primary point of attachment with respect to a wireless terminal. For instance a wireless terminal can classify a message received from a host based on inspection of header and or payload fields and encapsulate the message within an LLC frame similar to that described herein. While LLC frames are described herein it is understood that any suitable manner for re routing a message to an intended recipient is contemplated by the inventors and intended to fall under the scope of the hereto appended claims.

Now referring to a methodology for encapsulating a data packet within an LLC frame in connection with providing contents thereof to a point of attachment e.g. a primary point of attachment is illustrated. The methodology starts at and at a data packet is received. For example the received data packet can include QoS requests with respect to a particular wireless terminal wherein such request can desirably be provided to a particular base station e.g. a primary point of attachment . For instance the data packet can be received by a wireless terminal from a host device. At a determination can be made that the data packet should be provided to a primary point of attachment. For example the data packet can be addressed to a one hop multi cast address.

At the data packet is encapsulated in an LLC frame for instance and directed to the primary point of attachment. Such encapsulation can occur at a wireless terminal for example. Once encapsulated the frame can be provided to an appropriate point of attachment and or routed to such point of attachment. The methodology then completes at .

Now turning to a methodology for performing a unicast relay of a data packet is illustrated. The methodology begins at and at a data packet is received. For instance a wireless terminal can receive the data packet from a host. In another example a home agent can receive the data packet from another network infrastructure device. At it is determined that the data packet is addressed to a particular base station point of attachment . For example the data packet can indicate an IP address of the base station. At the data packet is relayed to the identified base station and at the methodology completes. This unicast routing can be supported in a flexible system that additionally supports one hop multicasting as well as interception and relay of messages wherein the base station identity address is not known at time of creation of the message.

Referring now to a methodology for intercepting a message in a wireless communications environment is illustrated. Interception may be desirable when a party creating a message does not have knowledge of a particular base station associated with a wireless terminal due to mobile capabilities of the wireless terminal . Such methodology can be performed for instance in a packet switched wireless network. Methodology starts at and at a data packet is received wherein the data packet is addressed to a particular wireless terminal. The data packet can be received at a base station for example. At the header of the packet is analyzed as the header can include an indication that the packet should be retained and analyzed rather than forwarded to the wireless terminal. For instance a base station can determine to intercept the packet based on inspection of one or more fields in the header and or payload e.g. match a specific value of a field within the header etc. At a determination is made that the packet is intended for the receiving base station and not the wireless terminal that is communicatively coupled to the base station . Additionally it is understood that the base station can intercept messages from subscriber side devices and addressed to a communications peer within a network. In other words base station may be employed to intercept downlink and or uplink packets where the term intercept refers to the base station receiving a packet addressed to a different network element and recognizing that such packet is intended for the base station. The base station can thereafter analyze contents of the data packet and for instance provide QoS treatment with respect to one or more traffic flows based upon contents of the data packet. The methodology then completes at .

Turning now to a methodology for performing selective forwarding in connection with providing a data packet to an appropriate base station is illustrated. As described above mobility of wireless terminals can cause primary points of attachment with respect to a wireless terminal. Moreover a wireless terminal may be associated with links to multiple base stations wherein one of such base stations should be designated as a primary point of attachment. It is difficult however to provide knowledge to each network entity and subscriber side device of primary points of attachment as a mobile unit s geographic location alters. The methodology enables packets intended for a primary base station to be routed to such base station when an originating entity does not have knowledge of primary base station identity network address.

The methodology starts at and at a data packet is received that is addressed to a one hop multicast address. For example a host device can initiate transmission of the data packet and a wireless terminal associated with the host device can receive such data packet. At the data packet is encapsulated in a particular frame format e.g. an LLC frame and an indication is provided within the header of such frame that the data packet is intended for a primary point of attachment base station . For instance a wireless terminal can perform such encapsulation. At the frame is provided to a base station that is communicatively coupled to the wireless terminal. In more detail the frame can be provided to a base station that is not the primary point of attachment but such base station can analyze the frame and determine that the packet should be forwarded to an appropriate base station. In another example the frame can be directly provided to the primary point of attachment. The methodology then completes at .

With reference to a system that facilitates provision of data packets to an appropriate point of attachment base station is illustrated. System includes logical module s for receiving a data packet wherein such module s can include one or more network ports an antenna a receiver chain memory a processor or any other suitable software hardware that can be utilized to receive a data packet. System also includes logical module s for determining that the data packet should be provided to a particular point of attachment . Such module s can include a processor an application executed by the processor e.g. configured to analyze the received data packet to determine whether the packet is intended for a primary point of attachment base station . System additionally includes logical module s for encapsulating the data packet in an LLC frame . Again such module s can include a processor memory hardware software firmware etc. System also includes logical module s for directing the frame to the particular point of attachment wherein logical module s may include a transmitter a network port and or any other suitable communications medium as well as software hardware firmware and the like that enables the frame to be directed to the particular point of attachment.

Turning now to a system relating to intercepting messages is illustrated wherein intercepting refers to recognizing that a packet addressed to a network entity is in actuality intended for a receiving entity. System include logical module s for receiving a data packet wherein such module s can comprise an antenna a receiver chain a processor memory and or any suitable hardware software and or firmware associated therewith. The received data packet can be addressed to a particular network entity. System additionally includes logical module s for determining that the data packet is addressed to a network entity that is not the receiving entity . For instance the logical module s can include a processor an application and or the like. System also includes logical module s for determining that the data packet is intended for the receiving entity even though the data packet is addressed to a different network entity . The logical module s can include one or more processors memory etc. System can also comprise logical module s for executing instructions at the receiving entity based at least in part upon contents of the received data packet . Such module s can include a processor for example.

Now referring to a system is shown wherein system is employed to illustrate provision of an indication to a requester of resources that a point of attachment with respect to a resource state has been changed e.g. the subscriber device with which resources are associated has moved to a new point of attachment. System includes a wireless terminal that is communicatively coupled to at least one of two access nodes and . In an example access nodes and can be base stations within a wireless communications environment and wireless terminal can be communicatively coupled to both access nodes and simultaneously as shown by links and wherein one of such nodes is a primary access node. It is understood however that wireless terminal can be coupled to both access nodes and simultaneously without either of such access nodes being labeled as a primary access node. In another example wireless terminal may be linked to access node at a first instance in time and then handed off to access node at a second instance in time. Wireless terminal can be associated with a host device which for instance may comprise wireless terminal . In another example host may be a computing device and wireless terminal can be a peripheral device.

System can also include a network entity that requests resources from one of access nodes and with respect to wireless terminal . For instance network entity can be an application server and can request QoS support management on behalf of wireless terminal from a primary access node associated with wireless terminal. In another example network entity can be a function that resides within an application server for example. As described above however wireless terminal can move to different geographic locations within a network thereby changing its point of attachment or primary point of attachment to a network. To ensure that network entity has knowledge of where to relay resource requests a message move message that informs network entity that a point of attachment with respect to wireless terminal has changed is generated by at least one of access nodes and and provided to network entity . In addition or alternatively the message move message can inform network entity that resource state e.g. data structures corresponding to QoS support for one or more traffic flows controlled and or maintained by the network entity have been moved to a new point of attachment of wireless terminal .

Pursuant to an example access node may at first be a point of attachment with respect to wireless terminal and network entity can provide access node with a request for resources. Access node can retain resource state information e.g. QoS resource information and provide wireless terminal with appropriate traffic flow treatment with respect to the resource request assuming a subscriber is authorized with respect to requested resources . As wireless terminal changes location a handoff may occur such that access node becomes the point of attachment e.g. primary point of attachment with respect to wireless terminal . In another example access node can become a point of attachment with respect to a particular resource or resource state while access node remains a point of attachment for different resources or resource states. Resource state information including identity network address of a requester can be relayed between access node a most recent point of attachment to access node a current point of attachment . Access node can then provide a message to network entity indicating that access node is now the point of attachment e.g. the primary point of attachment for wireless terminal . In another embodiment access node can provide the move message to network entity indicating that access node is the new point of attachment for wireless terminal . In still another embodiment both access node and access node can provide the network entity with a move message. Thereafter network entity can provide subsequent resource requests to the current point of attachment e.g. access node .

Wireless terminal can also be employed to provide a move message wherein such move message may be provided to host . Pursuant to an example wireless terminal may have knowledge that a point of attachment has changed e.g. from access node to access node . Wireless terminal can then generate a move message and provide such message to host thereby enabling host to have knowledge of where to provide resource requests e.g. requests for QoS support for particular traffic flows .

As can be discerned there may be a race condition if for instance network entity initiates a resource request and provides it to an access node that is no longer a primary access node and or linked to wireless terminal . In such case resource requests e.g. to add resources desirably associated with wireless terminal modify resources associated with wireless terminal delete resources associated with wireless terminal can time out. Prior to timing out or proximate in time thereto network entity can receive a move message. Other manners mechanisms for managing race conditions are contemplated by the inventors and are intended to fall under the scope of the hereto appended claims.

Turning now to a methodology for providing a move indication message to a requester of resources is illustrated. Methodology begins at and at a handoff is performed with respect to an access node e.g. base station that is a point of attachment for a wireless terminal. For instance the access node can be one of several points of attachment and or can be a sole point of attachment prior to handoff . Such handoff can occur due to a wireless terminal transitioning geographically between coverage areas provided by base stations for instance. At a resource state associated with a resource requester is received. For example such resource state can be received at a current point of attachment e.g. primary point of attachment from a most recent point of attachment or primary point of attachment . The resource state for instance can indicate how particular traffic flows associated with a wireless terminal are to be treated with respect to QoS. The resource requester can be a network entity requesting resources associated with a wireless terminal such as an application server. Additionally or alternatively the resource requester can be a host associated with the wireless terminal. Moreover the resource requester can be a function that resides within an application server and or a function that resides within a subscriber side device. Still further the current point of attachment can receive multiple resource states associated with a plurality of resource requesters. At a move indication is provided to the requester or multiple requesters thereby providing the requester s with knowledge of a base station that is providing certain QoS treatment with respect to one or more traffic flows to the wireless terminal for instance. The requester can then provide subsequent requests to the current point of attachment. The methodology thereafter completes at .

With respect to a methodology for providing a resource requester with a move message is illustrated. Methodology begins at and at a determination is made that a handoff has occurred with respect to a wireless terminal. For example an access node that was a point of attachment e.g. a primary point of attachment can determine that it is no longer a point of attachment or no longer the primary point of attachment after the handoff has occurred. At an identity location of a resource requester is determined wherein the access node managed supported resources associated with the resource requester prior to the handoff. For instance the identity and or location of the resource requester can be retained within memory associated with the access node.

At an identity and or location of an access node that is a new point of attachment or new primary point of attachment is determined. For example such identity location can be provided from an access node that is a new point of attachment after handoff from a wireless terminal that is subject to the handoff and or the like. At the identified resource requester is provided with an identity and or location of the new point of attachment or primary point of attachment . Thus the resource requester will have knowledge of where to provide future resource requests. The methodology then completes at .

Referring now to a methodology for providing resource requests to a point of attachment is illustrated. The methodology initiates at and at a request for resources on behalf of a wireless terminal is provided to a point of attachment which can be for example a primary point of attachment. For instance the request can be provided to a base station that performs scheduling resource allocation and other QoS functions with respect to the wireless terminal that is the subject of the request. An application server for example can provide the resource request to a current point of attachment. At an indication that a point of attachment has been altered is received or that a primary point of attachment has changed . For example as described above the move message can be provided from a current primary point of attachment and or the previous primary point of attachment. At a subsequent resource request is provided to the point of attachment e.g. primary point of attachment indicated within the move message e.g. the new primary point of attachment following a change in the primary point of attachment. The methodology then completes at .

Now turning to a system that facilitates informing a resource requester of a change in point of attachment with respect to a wireless terminal is illustrated. System includes logical module s for receiving a QoS resource state associated with a requester wherein such module s can include a port a receiver chain a processor memory and or the like. For instance module s can be configured to receive the resource state from a previous point of attachment or a previous primary point of attachment. With more specificity during a handoff procedure a previous point of attachment can provide a new point of attachment with resource states associated with a wireless terminal that is a subject of the handoff procedure. In another example a previous primary point of attachment can provide a new primary point of attachment with resource states relating to the wireless terminal. System additionally includes logical module s for delivering a move indication to the requester wherein the module s can include an antenna a transmitter chain and or the like. Thus the requester will have knowledge of identity network address of a current point of attachment associated with the wireless terminal.

With reference to a system for providing QoS resource requests to an appropriate access node is illustrated. System includes logical module s for providing a QoS support request to a point of attachment e.g. a primary point of attachment wherein such module s can include an antenna transmission software network cabling and or the like. The point of attachment can be the point of attachment for a particular wireless terminal that is subject of the QoS support request. System additionally includes logical module s for receiving an indication that a point of attachment has been altered . For example the primary point of attachment may change an additional point of attachment may be associated with the wireless terminal etc. Such logical module s can include a receiver chain network cabling software that enables receipt of the indication etc. System further includes logical module s for providing subsequent QoS support requests to a new point of attachment with respect to the wireless terminal . The logical module s can include substantially similar elements as logical module s .

Now turning to a communications apparatus is illustrated. Communications apparatus can be a terminal a wireless terminal a host an access node such as a base station a network entity such as an application server a home agent etc. and or the like. Communications apparatus can include memory that is utilized to retain various instructions and a processor that is configured to execute such instructions. For instance if communications apparatus is an access node memory can include instructions for receiving QoS support management requests from multiple entities on behalf of a wireless terminal and processor can be employed to execute such instructions. Generally communications apparatus can be configured such that memory includes instructions relating to any suitable functionality described above and processor can be employed to execute such instructions including but not limited to instructions for providing QoS support requests instructions for receiving QoS support requests instructions for generating and delivering a move indication instructions for encapsulating a data package in an LLC frame and other functionality described herein .

To provide additional context for one or more embodiments described herein is provided to illustrate an example communication system that comprises a plurality of nodes interconnected by communications links. The system may use Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM signals to communicate information over wireless links. However other types of signals e.g. Code Division Multiple Access CDMA signals or Time Division Multiple Access TDMA signals are also contemplated together with signals utilized in land based networks . Nodes in the communication system exchange information using signals e.g. messages based on communication protocols e.g. the Internet Protocol IP . The communications links of the system may be implemented for example using wires fiber optic cables and or wireless communications techniques. The system includes a plurality of end nodes which access the communication system by way of a plurality of access nodes . End nodes may be e.g. wireless communication devices or terminals and the access nodes may be e.g. wireless access routers or base stations. Communication system also includes a number of other nodes that are used to provide interconnectivity or to provide specific services or functions.

Communications system depicts a network that includes access control node mobility support node policy control node and application server node all of which are connected to an intermediate network node by a corresponding network link respectively. In some embodiments the access control node e.g. a Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS or Diameter server supports authentication authorization and or accounting of end nodes and or services associated with end nodes. In some embodiments mobility support node e.g. a Mobile IP home agent and or context transfer server supports mobility e.g. handoff of end nodes between access nodes e.g. by way of redirection of traffic to from end nodes and or transfer of state associated with end nodes between access nodes. In some embodiments policy control node e.g. a policy server or Policy Decision Point PDP supports policy authorization for services or application layer sessions. In some embodiments application server node e.g. a Session Initiation Protocol server streaming media server or other application layer server supports session signaling for services available to end nodes and or provides services or content available to end nodes.

Intermediate network node in network provides interconnectivity to network nodes that are external from the perspective of network by way of network link . Network link is connected to intermediate network node which provides further connectivity to access nodes and by way of network links respectively. Each access node is depicted as providing connectivity to end nodes respectively by way of corresponding access links respectively. In communication system each access node is depicted as using wireless technology e.g. wireless access links to provide access. Wired technology may also be utilized however in connection with provision of access. A radio coverage area e.g. communications cells of each access node is illustrated as a circle surrounding the corresponding access node.

Communication system can be used as a basis for the description of various embodiments described herein. Alternative embodiments include various network topologies where a number and type of nodes including network nodes access nodes end nodes as well as various control support and server nodes a number and type of links and interconnectivity between various nodes may differ from that of communication system . Additionally some of the functional entities depicted in communication system may be omitted or combined. Location or placement of these functional entities may also be varied.

Wireless communication interface module provides a mechanism by which the internal components of end node can send and receive signals to from external devices and network nodes e.g. access nodes. Wireless communication interface module includes e.g. a receiver module with a corresponding receiving antenna and a transmitter module with a corresponding transmitting antenna used for coupling end node to other network nodes e.g. by way of wireless communications channels.

End node also includes a user input device e.g. keypad and a user output device e.g. display which are coupled to bus through user input output interface . Thus user input output devices and can exchange information signals and data with other components of end node by way of user input output interface and bus . User input output interface and associated devices and provide mechanisms by which a user can operate end node to accomplish various tasks. In particular user input device and user output device provide functionality that allows a user to control end node and applications e.g. modules programs routines and or functions that execute in memory of end node .

Processor under control of various modules e.g. routines included in memory controls operation of end node to perform various signaling and processing. The modules included in memory are executed on startup or as called by other modules. Modules may exchange data information and signals when executed. Modules may also share data and information when executed. Memory of end node includes a control signaling module an application module and a traffic control module which further includes configuration information and various additional modules.

Control signaling module controls processing relating to receiving and sending signals e.g. messages for controlling operation and or configuration of various aspects of end node including e.g. traffic control module as well as configuration information and various additional modules included. In some embodiments control signaling module can include state information e.g. parameters status and or other information relating to operation of end node and or one or more signaling protocols supported by control signaling module . In particular control signaling module may include configuration information e.g. end node identification information and or parameter settings and operational information e.g. information about current processing state status of pending message transactions etc.

Application module controls processing and communications relating to one or more applications supported by end node . In some embodiments application module processing can include tasks relating to input output of information by way of the user input output interface manipulation of information associated with an application and or receiving or sending signals e.g. messages associated with an application. In some embodiments application module includes state information e.g. parameters status and or other information relating to operation of one or more applications supported by application module . In particular application module may include configuration information e.g. user identification information and or parameter settings and operational information e.g. information about current processing state status of pending responses etc. Applications supported by application module include e.g. Voice over IP VoIP web browsing streaming audio video instant messaging file sharing gaming etc.

Traffic control module controls processing relating to receiving and sending data information e.g. messages packets and or frames through wireless communication interface module . The example traffic control module includes configuration information as well as various additional modules that control various aspects of QoS for packets and or traffic flows e.g. associated sequences of packets. Various additional modules are included in some embodiments to perform particular functions and operations as needed to support specific aspects of traffic control. Modules may be omitted and or combined as needed depending on the functional requirements of traffic control. A description of each additional module included in traffic control module follows.

An admission control module maintains information relating to resource utilization availability and determines if sufficient resources are available to support QoS parameters desirably associated with particular traffic flows. Resource availability information maintained by admission control module includes e.g. packet and or frame queuing capacity scheduling capacity as well as processing and memory capacity needed to support one or more traffic flows. Control signaling module application module and or other modules included in end node may query admission control module to determine if sufficient resources are available to support a new or modified traffic flow where the admission control determination is a function of QoS parameters of the particular traffic flow and QoS parameters defined within a profile. Configuration information can include configuration information e.g. parameters settings that affect the operation of admission control module e.g. an admission control threshold value that indicates percentage of resource that may be allocated prior to rejecting additional requests.

An uplink scheduler module controls processing relating to transmission scheduling e.g. order and or timing and allocation of transmission resources e.g. information coding rate transmission time slots and or transmission power for data information e.g. messages packets and or frames to be sent by way of wireless communication interface module e.g. from end node to an access node. Uplink scheduler module can schedule transmissions and allocate transmission resources as a function of QoS parameters associated with one or more traffic flows. In some embodiments scheduling and or resource allocation operations performed by uplink scheduler module are additionally a function of channel conditions and other factors e.g. power budget.

An uplink PHY MAC module controls physical PHY layer and Media Access Control MAC layer processing relating to sending data information e.g. messages packets and or frames by way of wireless communication interface module e.g. from end node to an access node. For instance operation of uplink PHY MAC module includes both sending and receiving control information e.g. signals or messages to coordinate sending of data information e.g. messages packets and or frames. Configuration information can include configuration information e.g. parameters settings that affect the operation of uplink PHY MAC module e.g. a frequency band channel spreading code or hoping code to be used for transmissions an identifier associated with end node a request dictionary prescribing use of an assignment request channel etc.

An uplink LLC ARQ module controls Logical Link Control LLC layer processing relating to sending data information e.g. messages packets and or frames through wireless communication interface module e.g. from end node to an access node. Uplink LLC ARQ module includes processing associated with Automatic Repeat Request ARQ capabilities e.g. retransmission of lost packets or frames. Uplink LLC ARQ module can for instance further include processing relating to addition of an LLC header and or trailer to higher layer messages e.g. packets to provide additional functionality e.g. multi protocol multiplexing demultiplexing by way of a type field or error detection through utilization of a checksum field. Uplink LLC ARQ module can additionally perform fragmentation of higher layer messages e.g. packets into multiple sub portions e.g. frames to be sent by uplink PHY MAC module . Configuration information can include configuration information that affect operation of uplink LLC ARQ module e.g. an ARQ window size maximum number of retransmissions a discard timer etc.

An uplink queue management module maintains information and controls processing relating to storage of data information to be sent by way of wireless communication interface module e.g. from end node to an access node. Uplink queue management module can for example control storage of data information awaiting transmission and maintain state information regarding data information awaiting transmission on a per traffic flow basis e.g. packets associated with each traffic flow may be stored in separate queues. For instance uplink queue management module supports a variety of queue management techniques and or capabilities e.g. head drop tail drop as well as various Active Queue Management AQM mechanisms such as Random Early Detection RED . Configuration information can include configuration information that affects operation of uplink queue management module such as a queue limit drop strategy and or AQM thresholds associated with one or more traffic flows.

An uplink classifier module controls processing relating to identification of data information as belonging to particular traffic flows prior to being sent by way of the wireless communication interface module e.g. from end node to an access node. In some embodiments messages packets and or frames to be sent through utilization of wireless communication interface module are classified as belonging to one of a variety of traffic flows by uplink classifier module based on inspection of one or more header and or payload fields. Results of classification by uplink classifier module can affect the treatment of classified data information by uplink queue management module as well as other modules within memory . For example the results may determine a particular queue the message packet and or frame will be associated with for storage and further affect subsequent processing such as scheduling. Configuration information can include configuration information that affect operation of uplink classifier module e.g. a set of one or more classifier filter rules that prescribe criteria used to associate data information e.g. messages packets and or frames as belonging to one or more traffic flows.

A downlink PHY MAC module controls PHY layer and MAC layer processing relating to receiving data information by way of wireless communication interface module . Operation of downlink PHY MAC module can include both sending and receiving control information to coordinate receiving of data information. Configuration information can include configuration information that affect operation of downlink PHY MAC module e.g. a frequency band channel spreading code or hoping code to be used for reception an identifier associated with end node etc.

A downlink LLC ARQ module controls LLC layer processing relating to receiving data information by way of wireless communication interface module . Downlink LLC ARQ module includes processing associated with ARQ capabilities e.g. retransmission of lost packets or frames. For example downlink LLC ARQ module can further include processing relating to an LLC header and or trailer that encapsulates higher layer messages which provides additional functionality e.g. multi protocol multiplexing demultiplexing through a type field or error detection by way of a checksum field. Downlink LLC ARQ module can also perform reassembly of frames received by the downlink PHY MAC module into higher layer messages. Configuration information can and in some embodiments does include configuration information e.g. parameters settings that affect operation of downlink LLC ARQ module e.g. an ARQ window size maximum number of retransmissions a discard timer etc.

Network internetwork interface module provides a mechanism by which the internal components of access node can send and receive signals to from external devices and network nodes. Network internetwork interface module includes a receiver module and a transmitter module used for coupling node to other network nodes e.g. through copper wires or fiber optic lines. Wireless communication interface module also provides a mechanism by which the internal components of access node can send and receive signals to from external devices and network nodes e.g. end nodes. Wireless communication interface module includes e.g. a receiver module with a corresponding receiving antenna and a transmitter module with a corresponding transmitting antenna . Wireless communication interface module is used for coupling access node to other nodes e.g. by way of wireless communication channels.

Processor under control of various modules e.g. routines included in memory controls operation of access node to perform various signaling and processing. The modules included in memory are executed on startup or as called by other modules. Modules may exchange data information and signals when executed. Modules may also share data and information when executed. In the embodiment memory of access node includes a control signaling module and a traffic control module which further includes configuration information and various additional modules .

Control signaling module controls processing relating to receiving and sending signals e.g. messages for controlling operation and or configuration of various aspects of access node including e.g. traffic control module as well as configuration information and the various additional modules included therein . For instance control signaling module includes state information e.g. parameters status and or other information relating to operation of access node and or one or more signaling protocols supported by control signaling module . In particular control signaling module may include configuration information e.g. access node identification information and or parameter settings and operational information e.g. information about current processing state status of pending message transactions etc.

Traffic control module controls processing relating to receiving and sending data information e.g. messages packets and or frames by way of wireless communication interface module . For instance traffic control module can include configuration information as well as various additional modules that control various aspects of quality of service for packets and or traffic flows e.g. associated sequences of packets. In some embodiments traffic control module includes state information e.g. parameters status and or other information relating to operation of access node traffic control module and or one or more of the various additional modules included therein . Configuration information e.g. parameter settings determines affects and or prescribes operation of traffic control module and or the various additional modules included therein . The various additional modules are included in some embodiments to perform particular functions and operations as needed to support specific aspects of traffic control. In various embodiments modules may be omitted and or combined as needed depending on the functional requirements of traffic control. A description of each additional module included in traffic control module follows.

Admission control module maintains information relating to resource utilization availability and determines if sufficient resources are available to support quality of service requirements of particular traffic flows. Resource availability information maintained by admission control module includes e.g. packet and or frame queuing capacity scheduling capacity as well as processing and memory capacity needed to support one or more traffic flows. Control signaling module and or other modules included in access node can query admission control module to determine if sufficient resources are available to support a new or modified traffic flow where the admission control determination is a function of the quality of service requirements of the particular traffic flow and or the available resources. Configuration information can include configuration information e.g. parameters settings that affect the operation of admission control module e.g. an admission control threshold value that indicates the percentage of resource that may be allocated prior to rejecting additional requests.

Uplink scheduler module controls processing relating to transmission scheduling e.g. order and or timing and allocation of transmission resources e.g. information coding rate transmission time slots and or transmission power for data information e.g. messages packets and or frames to be sent from one or more end nodes to the access node by way of wireless interface module . Uplink scheduler module can schedule transmissions and allocate transmission resources as a function of the quality of service requirements and or constraints associated with one or more traffic flows and or one or more end nodes. Configuration information can include configuration information that affect the operation of uplink scheduler module e.g. a priority rate bound latency bound and or sharing weight associated with one or more traffic flows and or end nodes. In some embodiments scheduling and or resource allocation operations performed by uplink scheduler module are additionally a function of channel conditions and other factors e.g. power budget.

Downlink scheduler module controls processing relating to transmission scheduling e.g. order and or timing and allocation of transmission resources e.g. information coding rate transmission time slots and or transmission power for data information e.g. messages packets and or frames to be sent from access node to one or more end nodes through wireless interface module . Downlink scheduler module can schedule transmissions and allocate transmission resources as a function of the quality of service requirements and or constraints associated with one or more traffic flows and or one or more end nodes. Configuration information can include configuration information that affects the operation of downlink scheduler module e.g. a priority rate bound latency bound and or sharing weight associated with one or more traffic flows and or end nodes. In some embodiments scheduling and or resource allocation operations performed by the downlink scheduler module are additionally a function of channel conditions and other factors e.g. power budget.

Uplink traffic conditioner module controls processing relating to traffic conditioning e.g. metering marking policing etc. for data information e.g. messages packets and or frames received by way of wireless interface module e.g. from an end node to access node . Uplink traffic conditioner module can condition traffic e.g. meter mark and or police as a function of the quality of service requirements and or constraints associated with one or more traffic flows and or one or more end nodes. Configuration information can include configuration information that affects the operation of uplink traffic conditioner module e.g. a rate bound and or marking value associated with one or more traffic flows and or end nodes.

Uplink classifier module controls processing relating to identification of data information e.g. messages packets and or frames received through wireless interface module e.g. from an end node to access node as belonging to particular traffic flows prior to being processed by uplink traffic conditioner module . In some embodiments messages packets and or frames received through wireless communication interface module are classified as belonging to one of a variety of traffic flows by uplink classifier module based on inspection of one or more header and or payload fields. The results of classification by uplink classifier module can affect the treatment of the classified data information e.g. messages packets and or frames by uplink traffic conditioner module e.g. the results may determine a particular data structure or state machine the message packet and or frame will be associated with and further affect subsequent processing such as metering marking and or policing. Configuration information can include configuration information that affects the operation of uplink classifier module e.g. a set of one or more classifier filter rules that prescribe criteria used to associate data information e.g. messages packets and or frames as belonging to one or more traffic flows.

Uplink LLC ARQ module controls LLC layer processing relating to receiving data information e.g. packets and or frames by way of wireless communication interface module e.g. from an end node to access node . Uplink LLC ARQ module includes processing associated with ARQ capabilities e.g. retransmission of lost packets or frames. In some embodiments uplink LLC ARQ module further includes processing relating to an LLC header and or trailer that encapsulates higher layer messages e.g. packets which provides additional functionality e.g. multi protocol multiplexing demultiplexing through a type field or error detection by way of a checksum field. Uplink LLC ARQ module can also perform reassembly of frames received by uplink PHY MAC module into higher layer messages e.g. packets. The configuration information can include configuration information that affects the operation of uplink LLC ARQ module e.g. an ARQ window size maximum number of retransmissions a discard timer etc.

Uplink PHY MAC module controls PHY layer and MAC layer processing relating to receiving data information e.g. packets and or frames by way of wireless communication interface module e.g. from an end node to access node . In some embodiments operation of uplink PHY MAC module includes both sending and receiving control information e.g. signals or messages to coordinate receiving of data information e.g. messages packets or frames. Configuration information can include configuration information that affects the operation of uplink PHY MAC module e.g. a frequency band channel spreading code or hopping code to be used for reception an identifier associated with access node etc.

Downlink classifier module controls processing relating to identification of data information e.g. messages packets and or frames as belonging to particular traffic flows prior to being sent through wireless communication interface module e.g. from access node to an end node. In some embodiments messages packets and or frames to be sent by way of wireless communication interface module are classified as belonging to one of a variety of traffic flows by downlink classifier module based on inspection of one or more header and or payload fields. The results of classification by downlink classifier module can affect the treatment of the classified data information e.g. messages packets and or frames by downlink queue management module and other modules and e.g. the results may determine a particular queue the message packet and or frame will be associated with for storage and further affect subsequent processing such as scheduling. Configuration information can include configuration information e.g. parameters settings that affect the operation of downlink classifier module e.g. a set of one or more classifier filter rules that prescribe criteria used to associate data information e.g. messages packets and or frames as belonging to one or more traffic flows.

Downlink traffic conditioner module controls processing relating to traffic conditioning e.g. metering marking policing etc. for data information e.g. messages packets and or frames to be sent by way of wireless interface module e.g. from access node to an end node. Downlink traffic conditioner module can condition traffic e.g. meter mark and or police as a function of the quality of service requirements and or constraints associated with one or more traffic flows and or one or more end nodes. Configuration information can include configuration information that affects the operation of downlink traffic conditioner module e.g. a rate bound and or marking value associated with one or more traffic flows and or end nodes.

Downlink queue management module maintains information and controls processing relating to storage of data information e.g. messages packets and or frames to be sent by way of wireless communication interface module e.g. from access node to an end node. Downlink queue management module can control storage of data information awaiting transmission and maintain state information regarding data information awaiting transmission on a per traffic flow basis e.g. packets associated with each traffic flow may be stored in separate queues. In some embodiments of Downlink queue management module supports a variety of queue management techniques and or capabilities e.g. head drop tail drop as well as various AQM mechanisms such as RED. Configuration information can include configuration information that affects the operation of downlink queue management module e.g. a queue limit drop strategy and or AQM thresholds associated with one or more traffic flows.

Downlink LLC ARQ module controls LLC layer processing relating to sending data information e.g. messages packets and or frames by way of wireless communication interface module e.g. from access node to an end node. Downlink LLC ARQ module includes processing associated with ARQ capabilities e.g. retransmission of lost packets or frames. In some embodiments downlink LLC ARQ module further includes processing relating to the addition of an LLC header and or trailer to higher layer messages e.g. packets to provide additional functionality e.g. multi protocol multiplexing demultiplexing through a type field or error detection by way of a checksum field. Downlink LLC ARQ module can also perform fragmentation of higher layer messages e.g. packets into multiple sub portions e.g. frames to be sent by downlink PHY MAC module . Configuration information can include configuration information that affects the operation of downlink LLC ARQ module e.g. an ARQ window size maximum number of retransmissions a discard timer etc.

Downlink PHY MAC module controls PHY layer and MAC layer processing relating to sending data information e.g. messages packets and or frames by way of wireless communication interface module e.g. from access node to an end node. In some embodiments operation of downlink PHY MAC module includes both sending and receiving control information e.g. signals or messages to coordinate sending of data information e.g. messages packets or frames. Configuration information can include configuration information that affects the operation of downlink PHY MAC module e.g. a frequency band channel spreading code or hoping code to be used for transmissions an identifier associated with the access node etc.

The data information e.g. traffic flows comprising a sequence of messages packets or frames sent from the application module in the end node to a corresponding node is shown by a sequence of arrows to proceed through a sequence of modules included in end node for processing after which the data information is sent from the end node to the access node e.g. by way of wireless communication interface module . Following reception by access node e.g. by way of wireless communication interface module the data information e.g. traffic flows comprising a sequence of messages packets or frames sent from the application module in end node to the corresponding node is shown by a sequence of arrows to proceed through a sequence of modules included in access node for processing prior to being forwarded from the access node toward the corresponding node e.g. directed in accordance with routing information to an intermediate node connected to the access node by way of network internetwork interface module .

The data information e.g. traffic flows comprising a sequence of messages packets or frames sent from a corresponding node to application module in end node is shown by a sequence of arrows to be received by access node e.g. by way of network internetwork interface module and then to proceed through a sequence of modules included in access node for processing after which the data information is sent from the access node to the end node e.g. via the wireless communication interface module . Following reception by end node e.g. by way of wireless communication interface module the data information e.g. traffic flows comprising a sequence of messages packets or frames sent from the corresponding node to application module in end node is shown by a sequence of arrows to proceed through a sequence of modules and included in end node for processing prior to being delivered to the application module in end node .

In addition to the exchange of data information e.g. traffic flows . also depicts the exchange of control information e.g. signaling flows and or communication interfaces. In particular the example depicts the exchange of control information between control signaling module and traffic control module included in access node . Similarly the example depicts the exchange of control information between control signaling module and the traffic control module included in the end node . In both access node and end node exchange of control information between the modules as shown allows the respective control signaling module in the access end node to affect e.g. set modify and or monitor the configuration and or operation of the various modules included in the respective traffic control module as needed to provide the proper quality of service treatment of the data information e.g. traffic flows to from the application module in the end node .

The exchange of control information e.g. signaling flows and or communication interfaces is also shown a between another node and control signaling module in access node b between application module in end node and control signaling module in end node and c between the respective control signaling modules in access node and end node . These exchanges of control information e.g. signaling flows and or communication interfaces enable the configuration and or operation of traffic control modules in both access node and the end node to be affected by a one or more additional nodes e.g. the access control node and or application server node b application module in end node or c a combination of one or more additional nodes and the application module in end node . Various embodiments of the present invention may and do support all or only a subset of the depicted control information exchanges as needed.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned embodiments but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of various embodiments are possible. Accordingly the described embodiments are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

