---

title: Methods of treating cancer with doxazolidine and prodrugs thereof
abstract: The invention provides therapeutically effective compounds for the prevention and treatment of cancer and pharmaceutical compositions containing these compounds as well as methods of using and administering these compounds. The invention also includes methods of activating a prodrug of these therapeutically effective compounds by the administration of a peptide-directed targeting construct that delivers a prodrug-activating enzyme to a target activation site.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08404650&OS=08404650&RS=08404650
owner: The Regents of the University of Colorado, a body corporate
number: 08404650
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061030
---
This application is a national stage application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT Application No. PCT US2006 060367 having an international filing date of Oct. 30 2006 which designated the United States which PCT application claimed the benefit of U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 731 323 filed Oct. 28 2005 the entire disclosure of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under CA92107 awarded by the National Institutes of Health NIH and DAMD17 01 1 0046 awarded by the U.S. Army Research Office. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates to anthracycline anti tumor compounds and method of treating cancers using these compounds. Specifically the invention provides anti tumor compounds having greater cytotoxicity than doxorubicin as well as enzymatically activated prodrugs of these compounds and methods of synthesizing and using these anti tumor compounds in the treatment of patients with cancer and neoplastic growth.

Doxorubicin is a broad spectrum anthracycline anti tumor drug used for the treatment of leukemias lymphomas and solid tumors and is a main line drug for the treatment of breast cancer. Unfortunately Doxorubicin exhibits frequent and dose limiting or even drug limiting cardiotoxicity. Additionally most multidrug resistant tumors and cancer cells display resistance to Doxorubicin. While these undesirable characteristics have limited the clinical usefulness of Doxorubicin the drug remains one of the oldest and most used anthracycline anti tumor compounds due to its substantial toxicity to sensitive cancer cells. For this reason there has been an intensive search for similar anthracycline compounds or derivatives of Doxorubicin having the same or similar anti tumor activity with greater specificity and or activity in drug resistant neoplastic cells.

Research into the mechanism of action of Doxorubicin led to the discovery of the potent formaldehyde Doxorubicin derivative Doxoform DoxF and U.S. Pat. No. 6 677 309 which cross links nuclear and mitochondrial DNA and inhibits equally the growth of sensitive and multidrug resistant cancer cells. DoxF has shown substantial anti tumor activity approximately 100 fold above Doxorubicin that is attributable to the oxazolidine ring formed by the reaction of Doxorubicin with formaldehyde. Additionally DoxF is no more toxic to cardiomyocytes than Doxorubicin itself. Unfortunately DoxF is highly susceptible to hydrolysis and therefore relatively unstable.

The discovery and characterization of the molecular events leading to the cross linking of DNA by anthracycline drugs including the induction of formaldehyde synthesis and its role in DNA cross link formation led to the synthesis of Daunoform from daunorubicin and Epidoxoform EpiF from epidoxorubicin . Evaluation of these compounds in tissue culture and mice revealed that although these conjugates have dimeric structures they function as prodrugs for the monomeric formaldehyde conjugates that cross link DNA. EpiF differs in structure from DoxF by having the formaldehyde incorporated in 7 membered rings rather than 5 membered rings because of a difference in stereochemistry at the amino sugar. Early on EpiF was selected as the lead compound because of its stability in water with respect to loss of formaldehyde half life 2 hours . While EpiF proved to be more active than epidoxorubicin in cancer cell growth inhibition and in a murine breast tumor model it was 50 fold less active than DoxF in cancer cell growth inhibition.

The second lead compound doxsaliform DoxSF contained the formaldehyde as an N Mannich base with salicylamide and had a monomeric structure rather than a dimeric structure. The N Mannich base served as a time release device half life 1 hour for the Doxorubicin formaldehyde Schiff base . It also provided functionality for attaching targeting groups that could direct the construct to receptors overexpressed by tumor cells and their associated angiogenesis. DoxSF was also more effective at tumor cell growth inhibition than Doxorubicin but again 50 fold less active than DoxF.

Additional studies have attempted to use methods of targeting prodrugs of Doxorubicin to tumor cells to increase the specificity of these drugs thereby reducing the non specific toxicity and related side effects. Antibody Directed Enzyme Prodrug Therapy ADEPT and Gene Directed Enzyme Prodrug Therapy GDEPT were promising methods for tumor localization of a prodrug activating enzyme that have been studied over the past six years for anthracycline based drugs and particularly Doxorubicin as Doxorubicin is a widely used anti tumor agent that is relatively easy to derivatize. The most effective Doxorubicin prodrugs to utilize this enzyme activated approach incorporated a peptide or sugar recognized and cleaved by endogenous or non native enzymes near the tumor or its supporting vasculature with the goal of reducing the dose limiting cardiotoxic side effect of Doxorubicin.

Scheeren and coworkers Mal. Cancer Therap. 1 901 911 2002 J. Org. Chem. 2001 8815 8830 2001 developed a plasmin activated tripartate Doxorubicin prodrug ST 9802 with reduced cardio and systemic toxicity. Plasmin is a protease over expressed by numerous cancer types and although it is found in the bloodstream its activity is inhibited by 2 antiplasmin and 2 macroglobulin. ST 9802 showed no release of Doxorubicin after incubation in bovine serum for 3 days indicating good plasmin specificity. While the toxicity of ST 9802 was reduced some efficacy was lost as well and it failed to match the tumor growth inhibition of Doxorubicin in mice bearing human MCF 7 breast tumors even at an equitoxic dose. A variant of ST 9802 with an elongated Katzenellenbogen type spacer ST 9905 fared better in mouse efficacy experiments but at best could only match the activity of Doxorubicin FASEB J. 18 565 567 2004 .

In 2004 Springer and co workers J. Med. Chem. 47 2651 2658 2004 reported on a series of nitrogen mustard prodrugs activated by carboxypeptidase G2 CPG2 produced by type RS16. These prodrugs were designed to be activated in vivo by the prior administration of a tumor specific monoclonal antibody conjugated to CPG2. These nitrogen mustard prodrugs have been evaluated using both ADEPT and GDEPT strategies and one of these compounds ZD2767 showed significant tumor growth inhibition in mice.

In related studies the capacity of lactamase enzymes from species to selectively hydrolyze the lactam ring of cephalosporins and penicillins was used to activate a number of cytotoxin containing prodrugs Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 3 323 328 1993 Cancer Res. 64 2853 2857 2004 . When used in conjunction with numerous antibody lactamase enzyme conjugates the Doxorubicin cephem prodrug achieved higher intratumoral levels of Doxorubicin and exhibited tumor growth inhibition comparable to Doxorubicin.

Although groundbreaking in their day these prodrug designs failed to address the issue of drug resistance since they relied on Doxorubicin for their cytotoxic effect and several resistance mechanisms for Doxorubicin are known. Since Doxorubicin is a cation at physiological pH its capacity to diffuse is limited and therefore its bystander effect modest. Indeed none of the Doxorubicin containing prodrugs described above outperformed Doxorubicin in mouse xenograft assays.

Although ADEPT has advanced significantly and even landed a few prodrugs in clinical trials there is still substantial room for improvement. As antibodies are large molecules approx. 150 kDa and therefore diffuse very slowly they are poor targeting agents for many solid tumors. Due to important advances in protein engineering recombinant fragments that retain most of the antigen affinity and are significantly smaller approx. 25 kDa have been made but these antibodies still need to be humanized to reduce immunogenic response in the host. Immune response to antibody reduces the effectiveness of therapy by removing the antibody enzyme conjugate from circulation before it reaches the tumor and often limits therapy to a single ADEPT cycle. In addition humanized antibody development is expensive and time consuming and constructs containing enzymes often have significantly reduced enzymatic activity ands antibody enzyme conjugates are large molecules that are slow to penetrate tumors if they do so at all.

Therefore there is a need for a novel approach to anti tumor drug targeting that is quick efficient and involves a small molecule as a targeting group. Preferably such a prodrug approach could incorporate the anti tumor efficacy of doxorubicin while eliminating or substantially reducing the associated cardiotoxicity and simultaneously overcoming the doxorubicin drug resistance displayed by many cancer cells.

The present invention provides highly cytotoxic derivatives of doxorubicin for use as anti cancer compounds and prodrugs thereof. These compounds and the prodrugs have been designed to target and efficiently kill tumor cells with at least as much efficacy as doxorubicin while simultaneously increasing the bystander effect while reducing the cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin. Additionally these anti cancer compounds overcome most or all of the drug resistance displayed to doxorubicin by many cancer cells. The novel derivatives of doxorubicin that have been designed synthesized and evaluated by the present inventors and are disclosed herein include doxorubicin formaldehyde conjugates having an oxazolidine ring.

These conjugates may be formulated as prodrugs by forming a carbamate with the doxorubicin formaldehyde conjugate having one or more carbamate groups. These prodrugs are activated by the action of carboxylesterases to hydrolyze the terminal carbamate to carbamic acid.

Alternatively these conjugates may be formulated as prodrugs by forming a carbamate linked to a peptide that is a target for enzyme cleavage through a N L leucyl linkage. Enzymatic cleavage of the target peptide sequence releases the active doxorubicin formaldehyde conjugate. The enzyme target may be chosen to be cleaved by an enzyme associated with tumor cells such as plasmin or prostate specific antigen.

Similarly these conjugates may be formulated as prodrugs by forming a carbamate linked to a peptide that is a target for enzyme cleavage through at least one p aminobenzyloxycarbonyl PABC spacer. Preferably the enzyme target of these prodrugs is chosen to be plasmin. Similarly these conjugates may be formulated as prodrugs by forming a carbamate linked to glucuronic acid that is a target for enzyme cleavage through a p aminobenzyloxycarbonyl PABC spacer. The enzyme target of these prodrugs is beta glucuronidase. Alternatively these conjugates may be formulated as prodrugs by forming a carbamate linked to a beta lactam antibiotic that is a target for enzyme cleavage. The enzyme target of these prodrugs is a beta lactamase.

These conjugates may be formulated as prodrugs by forming a urea linked to glutamic acid that is a target for enzyme cleavage through a p aminobenzyloxycarbonyl PABC spacer. The enzyme target of these prodrugs is a carboxyglutamase.

These doxorubicin formaldehyde conjugates and the prodrugs thereof are useful for treating cancer or inhibiting the growth of cancer cells in mammals. These conjugates are also useful in cross linking DNA. Thus related embodiments of the present invention include the use of these conjugates or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof for the treatment or inhibition of cancer growth and or the cross linking of DNA. These conjugates may be used directly in vitro or in cell culture or may be formulated as a pharmaceutically acceptable dosage form in combination with any necessary or desired pharmaceutical excipients for ease of administration to a mammal in need of such treatment. The appropriate dosage to be administered to a patient will be a therapeutically effective amount that is determined by a physician.

The present invention is drawn to compounds that exhibit significant anti cancer activity against solid tumors cancers and neoplastic cells with reduced cardiotoxicity and susceptibility to the mechanisms of elimination by multidrug resistant cancer cells.

It has been discovered by the present inventors that Doxoform DoxF is a prodrug for the monomeric doxorubicin oxazolidine Doxazolidine Doxaz and that Doxaz is more reactive than acyclic conjugates in cross linking DNA. The synthesis isolation and characterization of Doxaz as well as kinetics for hydrolysis of DoxF to Doxorubicin via Doxaz and in vitro activity of Doxaz against sensitive and resistant cancer cells are described in Example 1 of this disclosure.

Doxaz inhibits the growth of tumor cells significantly better than Doxsaliform DoxSF Epidoxoform EpiF Epidoxorubicin Epi or Doxorubicin. Of particular significance is the higher activity of Doxaz relative to DoxSF which is a prodrug for an acyclic Doxorubicin formaldehyde conjugate such as the Schiff base or aminol. Doxaz contains a formaldehyde equivalent in a more stable oxazolidine ring than does Doxorubicin aminol or Schiff base. Doxaz is not a cation at physiological pH and consequently is more lipophilic than Doxorubicin and better able to overcome P 170 glycoprotein drug efflux pump responsible for the multi drug resistant phenotype. Additionally Doxaz is fast acting and can rapidly form virtual cross links to DNA such that it is not accessible to the efflux pump.

As described above and shown in Example 1 the reaction of formaldehyde with Doxorubicin forms an oxazolidine ring producing the highly cytotoxic Doxorubicin derivative Doxaz Doxf and correspondingly Doxaz cross link DNA resulting in apoptotic as well as non apoptotic cancer cell death. Doxaz is 10 100 fold more toxic to a wide variety of sensitive cancer cells than Doxorubicin. Additionally Doxaz is 500 10 000 fold more toxic to a variety of multidrug resistant cancer cells than Doxorubicin. In spite of its drastically increased toxicity to cancer cells Doxaz is no more cardiotoxic than Doxorubicin when assayed in rat cardiomyocytes. Further circumstantial data link Doxaz to a 75 improvement relative to Doxorubicin in a clinical trial for the treatment of liver cancer. Doxaz is also uncharged and lipophilic and consequently able to overcome drug resistant phenotypes conferred by the P 170 glycoprotein drug efflux pump because unlike Doxorubicin it is not a cation at physiological pH. Thus Doxaz fulfils the need for an anthracycline anti cancer drug that overcomes drug resistance displayed by many cancer cells.

Doxaz is useful for the treatment of cancer and neoplastic cells or tissues including solid tumors. These conjugates are also useful in cross linking DNA in vivo in vitro or in situ particularly in cell culture . Thus one embodiment of the present invention is the use of Doxaz to treat or inhibit the growth of cancer. A related embodiment is the use of Doxaz for the cross linking of DNA. Doxaz may be used directly in vitro or in cell culture. Additionally Doxaz may be formulated as a pharmaceutically acceptable dosage form in combination with any necessary or desired pharmaceutical excipients for ease of administration to a mammal in need of such treatment. The appropriate dosage to be administered to a patient will be a therapeutically effective amount that is determined by a physician.

The results presented in Example 1 of this disclosure show that the formaldehyde conjugate of Epidoxorubicin Epi Epidoxoform EpiF is an order of magnitude less active at inhibiting tumor cell growth than is DoxF even though Epi is only slightly less active than Doxorubicin. Like DoxF EpiF has a dimeric structure from reaction of two Epi molecules with three formaldehyde molecules however because of the trans stereochemistry of the vicinal amino alcohol the structure is bicyclic with 7 membered rings. It also virtually cross links DNA and the crystal structure of the cross link is very similar to that formed with daunorubicin shown in . Upon hydrolysis EpiF slowly forms a monomeric species with one formaldehyde attached as an aminol. An aminol structure is also proposed for the intermediate from partial hydrolysis of DoxSF. Thus an anthracycline formaldehyde conjugate that has an oxazolidine ring or releases a derivative with an oxazolidine ring inhibits the growth of tumor cells much better than an anthracycline formaldehyde conjugate that releases a derivative with the formaldehyde incorporated as an aminol.

A related embodiment of the present invention is a prodrug of an anthracycline formaldehyde conjugate that has an oxazolidine ring. The prodrug compound of this embodiment releases an anthracycline formaldehyde conjugate with an oxazolidine ring. Preferably the oxazolidine ring of this conjugate is unsubstituted. These conjugates are also useful for the treatment or inhibition of growth of cancer in mammals requiring such treatment and in cross linking DNA. Thus related embodiments of the present invention include the use of a prodrug of an anthracycline formaldehyde conjugate that has an oxazolidine ring for treating or suppressing the growth of cancer and or the cross linking of DNA. These conjugates may be used directly in vitro or in cell culture or may be formulated as a pharmaceutically acceptable dosage form in combination with any necessary or desired pharmaceutical excipients for ease of administration to a mammal in need of such treatment.

An effective tumor activated prodrug should distribute efficiently to tumor tissue and undergo selective metabolism at the site of the tumor site to release the cytotoxic species. The active drug must then survive diffusion to neighboring tumor cells that cannot activate prodrug. This bystander effect is of great importance in prodrug therapy because only a small percentage of tumor cells will be capable of activating prodrug. As a general rule the more lipophilic a drug is the more likely it is to display a significant bystander effect due to its increased rate of diffusion through membranes. Due to the importance of diffusion a prodrug that is activated extracellularly has a significant advantage in that its effect is not isolated to one cell but rather has the potential to act on neighboring cells. Finally the active form of the prodrug should have a very short lifetime from many seconds to a few minutes so the highly cytotoxic component cannot spread to normal tissue. Doxaz possesses each of these characteristics of lipophilicity potent cytotoxicity and short half life making it an outstanding prodrug. But Doxaz suffers from low water solubility and instability in aqueous media half life of approximately 3 min at 37 C. for hydrolysis to Doxorubicin due to the hydrolytically sensitive oxazolidine ring. A prodrug form could vastly improve its water solubility and aqueous instability by protecting the oxazolidine ring. Thus the chemical characteristics and physiological anti cancer activity of Doxaz all point to the successful design of an active chemotherapeutic compound perfectly suited to formulation as a prodrug.

Novel Doxaz prodrug compounds that are enzymatically activated to release the active DNA cross linking anti cancer compound Doxaz have been designed synthesized and evaluated. These prodrugs use a carbamate functional group to protect the sensitive oxazolidine nitrogen of Doxaz proffering greater stability water solubility and tumor selectivity. These Doxaz carbamate compounds exhibit the potent anti cancer activity of free Doxaz with the reduced cardiotoxicity expected of Doxaz prodrugs. Three strategies are relied upon for the activation of these prodrugs 1 activation by native enzymes expressed at higher levels within cancer cells 2 activation by native enzymes at the tumor via Antibody Directed Enzyme Prodrug Therapy ADEPT and 3 activation by a novel Peptide Directed Enzyme Prodrug Therapy PeDEPT .

Carbamate protected Doxazolidine derivatives were designed for the treatment of primary and metastatic liver cancer. Doxoform a prodrug of Doxazolidine has ICvalues for the inhibition of Hep G2 and SK HEP 1 human liver cancer cells more than 25 fold lower than doxorubicin. Enzymatic release of Doxazolidine from its carbamate in the liver by carboxylesterases depicted in coupled with the short half life of Doxazolidine provides an effective strategy for targeted treatment of liver cancer.

One particularly useful prodrug of the present invention is a carbamate of doxazolidine having the chemical structure of Formula I 

Therefore one embodiment of the present invention is a doxazolidine carbamate prodrug of doxazolidine that is enzymatically activated by carboxylesterases. Preferably the ester comprises an optionally substituted alkyl group having between 1 and 100 carbon atoms an optionally substituted cycloaklyl group having between 3 and 20 carbon atoms or an optionally substituted aryl group and more preferably contains an unsubstituted alkyl group having between 4 and 6 carbon atoms or a phenyl or naphthyl group. Preferably the doxazolidine prodrug of this embodiment has the chemical structure of Formula I.

Another useful doxazolidine prodrug of the present invention is a dual carbamate of doxazolidine in which a terminal carbamate is linked to doxazolidine through a p aminobenzyloxycarbonyl PABC self eliminating spacer. Therefore one embodiment of the present invention is a compound having the chemical structure of Formula II 

wherein R may be an alkyl group having between 1 and 100 carbon atoms and preferably having between 4 and 6 carbon atoms. R may also be a cycloaklyl group having between 3 and 20 carbon atoms such as a cyclohexyl or cyclopentyl alkyl group. R may also be an aryl group and preferably a phenolic group such as phenyl substituted phenyl naphthyl or substituted naphthyl. In particularly preferred embodiments of the invention R is butyl butyl PABC Doxaz or pentyl Pentyl 4 N doxazolidinylcarbonyloxymethyl phenylcarbamate pentyl PABC Doxaz . These compounds having the p aminobenzyloxycarbonyl PABC self eliminating spacer show better growth inhibition while exhibiting reduced toxicity toward rat cardiomyocytes relative to the parent drug doxorubicin. The synthesis and efficacy of these carbamate prodrugs are described in Example 2 of this disclosure and depicted in .

In these prodrugs the terminal carbamate is selectively hydrolyzed to carbamic acid by endogenous carboxylesterases. A series of non enzymatic steps including decarboxylation followed by 1 6 elimination and a second decarboxylation releases Doxazolidine. This activation by endogenous esterases followed by non enzymatic decarboxylation and elimination steps is shown in .

Therefore another embodiment of the present invention is a doxazolidine prodrug having two carbamate groups that is enzymatically activated by carboxylesterases. Preferably the terminal carbamate ester comprises an optionally substituted alkyl group having between 1 and 100 carbon atoms or an optionally substituted aryl group and more preferably contains an unsubstituted alkyl group having between 4 and 6 carbon atoms or a phenyl or naphthyl group. Preferably the doxazolidine prodrug of this embodiment has the chemical structure of Formula II.

Another useful doxazolidine prodrug of the present invention is a leucyl carboxamide derivative of doxazolidine having the chemical structure of Formula III 

Wherein R is a biomolecule that is specifically removed by an enzyme present in a cancer cell. Preferably R is a peptide that is cleaved by an enzyme other than leucine aminopeptidase or a carboxylesterase. Preferred R groups include D Ala Phe Lys and glutaryl Hyp Ala Ser Chg Gln Ser SEQ ID NO 1 . Hyp is the abbreviation for a hydroxyproline residue and Chg for a cyclohexylglycine residue. 

Enzymatic cleavage at the amide bond by leucine aminopeptidase or carboxylesterase releases Doxazolidine from these prodrugs. The amino terminus of the leucine can be further conjugated to a peptide or other group cleaved by another enzyme to achieve a higher specificity of targeting. Preferably the doxazolidine prodrug of this embodiment has the chemical structure of Formula III wherein R may be glutaryl Hyp Ala Ser Chg Gln Ser SEQ ID NO 1 cleaved by prostate specific antigen PSA between the Ser and Leu residues and D Ala Phe Lys cleaved by plasmin between Lys and Leu.

The oxazolidine ring of Doxaz is hydrolytically sensitive especially at low pH. However it has been shown that the oxazolidine ring of a series of oxazolidine carbamates was stable above pH 7 for days but could be hydrolyzed within 24 hours under acidic conditions Rona M. and Ben Ishai D. J. Org. Chem. 26 1446 1450 1961 . Similarly the ethyl carbamate of Doxaz exhibits excellent stability and can be purified by silica gel chromatography or HPLC. This discovery has led to the development and synthesis of plasmin activated prodrugs of Doxaz in which the final amine deprotection can be carried out under mild reaction conditions after formation of the peptide Doxaz carbamate. These prodrugs incorporate the active anti cancer drug Doxaz with the oxazolidine ring protected as a carbamate having a spacer between the oxazolidine ring and a peptide incorporating a plasmin cleavage site. Preferably the spacer between the oxazolidine ring and the peptide is one or two para aminobenzyloxycarbonyl PABC spacers. Following cleavage of the peptide by plasmin the self eliminating PABC spacer is exposed and separates releasing the active Doxaz anti cancer compound.

Plasmin is a serine protease produced by cleavage of plasminogen at the tumor cell surface predominantly by urokinase plasminogen activator uPA bound to its receptor urokinase plasminogen activator receptor uPAR . Activation of plasminogen to plasmin on the surface of pancreatic cancer cells by tissue plasminogen activator tPA bound to annexin II has also been observed. Plasminogen is present in blood plasma at approximately 2 M concentration and is also present in extravascular compartments. Plasmin catalyzes the breakdown of proximal extracellular matrix proteins but not distal proteins because of a short half life in circulating blood from the serpin 2 antiplasmin and 2 macroglobulin protease inhibitors. Therefore these Doxaz prodrugs that have a stabilized oxazolidine ring and a peptide having a plasmin cleavage site are inactive and non toxic in the bloodstream but are activated to greater extent near cancer cells that activate the plasmin enzyme. Thus one embodiment of the present invention is a prodrug of Doxaz having the chemical structure of Formula IV 

This prodrug of Doxaz D Ala L Phe L Lys p aminobenzyloxycarbonyl Doxaz aFK PABC Doxaz has a plasmin cleavable peptide and the self eliminating PABC spacer which is selectively cleaved by plasmin to release Doxaz to inhibit the growth of both sensitive and resistant cancer cells at low concentration. It will also inhibit the growth of normal endothelial cells recruited for tumor angiogenesis that also express plasmin. Further Doxaz that escapes the site of release from aFK PABC Doxaz will rapidly hydrolyze to the less cytotoxic Doxorubicin.

This Doxaz prodrug is formed by coupling Doxazolidine to alloc D Ala L Phe L alloc Lys p aminobenzyl alcohol via activation of its alcohol with p nitrophenyl chloroformate followed by deprotection with palladium zero. aFK PABC Doxaz is a good substrate for plasmin with a half life of about 6 minutes in the presence of plasmin at 37 C. and Doxaz is observed as an intermediate between aFK PABC Doxaz and Doxorubicin during the hydrolysis.

A closely related embodiment of the present invention is another prodrug of Doxaz having two PABC spacers linking the Doxaz active anti tumor compound and a plasmin cleavage site. This embodiment of the present invention has the chemical structure of Formula V 

The activity limited toxicity and synthesis of these plasmin activated prodrugs of Doxaz are described in Example 3 of this disclosure. As noted in Example 3 the plasmin protease inhibitors prevalent in the bloodstream prevent the plasmin mediated cleavage of a plasmin cleavage site such as Lys Phe D Ala from these prodrugs thereby eliminating or significantly reducing the cardiotoxic side effects of Doxaz when these prodrugs are used in vivo. Despite their limited cardiotoxicity these plasmin activated carbamate derivatives of Doxaz having the chemical structures depicted in Formulas IV and V exhibit superior cancer cell growth inhibition and are therefore useful for treating or inhibiting the growth of cancer in mammals. These results indicate that these plasmin activated prodrugs posses many of the desired characteristics of a functional prodrug of an anti cancer compound. For example the stability of these drugs in buffer and serum for over 6 hours shows the improved stability of the oxazolidine ring of Doxaz conferred by the derivatization as a carbamate and the compounds exhibit excellent water solubility as a di cation. Additionally these drugs show specific rapid and efficient conversion of the prodrug to Doxaz by the enzyme of choice without the use of additional cofactors as plasmin incubation results in approximately 50 conversion to Doxaz within about 8 minutes. Also these prodrugs release an active compound that has good diffusivity for an optimal bystander effect as Doxaz is more lipophilic than Doxorubicin and diffuses into cancer cells much more rapidly than Doxorubicin. Further these prodrugs exhibit reduced cardiotoxicity relative to the active compound as the two prodrugs are about fifty fold less toxic to rat cardiomyocytes than Doxorubicin. Finally the active drug released by these prodrugs has a short half life after tumor localized activation thereby reducing its spread to normal tissue because after prodrug activation near a tumor Doxaz will have a short half life of about 3 minutes.

Because the glycosidic enzyme glucuronidase is largely confined to lysosomes the serum levels of the endogenous enzyme are extremely low and therefore prodrugs of Doxaz stabilized by a glucuronide moiety that can be removed by glucuronidase thereby releasing the active anti cancer moiety will have limited systemic release and thus limited disseminated toxicity. These prodrugs can be selectively activated in tumors by human glucuronidase. Thus one embodiment of the present invention is a Doxaz prodrug composed of Doxaz conjugated to glucuronide through at least one PABC spacer Doxaz PABC Glucuronide . As determined for the kinetic and in vitro data for Doxaz PABC Lys Phe D Ala prodrugs described supra the PABC spacer is very effective in the enzymatic conversion of prodrug to Doxaz and therefore this spacer is incorporated into the glucuronide prodrug shown in . Upon enzymatic cleavage by glucuronidase a 1 6 elimination will quickly release the parent anthracycline Doxaz from the iminoquinone methide protecting group. This Doxaz PABC Glucuronide prodrug conjugate has the chemical structure of Formula VI 

The synthesis of these Doxaz glucuronide prodrug conjugates is described in Example 4 of this disclosure. Because Doxaz is on average about 100 fold more cytotoxic than Doxorubicin against numerous sensitive cancer cell lines and because Doxaz rapidly converts to Doxorubicin in vivo with a half life of about 3 minutes Doxaz is highly cytotoxic for only a short time which is ideal for tumor localized prodrug activation. In addition since Doxaz is more lipophilic than Doxorubicin calculated LogP 1.1 vs. 0.34 the potential bystander effect of this prodrug following activation by glucuronidase is much greater.

The most effective Doxorubicin prodrugs incorporate a peptide or sugar recognized and cleaved by endogenous or non native enzymes near the tumor or its supporting vasculature to reduce the dose limiting cardiotoxic side effect of Doxorubicin. Most of these Doxorubicin prodrugs show significantly lower cardiotoxicity while maintaining the anti tumor activity of Doxorubicin in mouse tumor models. Using this strategy the present inventors have devised prodrugs of Doxazolidine activated in vivo by non native enzymes delivered to the tumor site separately from the prodrug itself. The enzymes are delivered to the cancer cells through the ADEPT or PeDEPT strategies described above in which the enzymes that specifically activate the Doxaz prodrug are delivered to the cancer cells by an antibody an antibody fragment or small peptides that bind specifically and with high affinity to a cell surface protein that is only expressed or is over expressed in cancer cells.

As noted above ADEPT and GDEPT generally suffer from the large size and immunogenic response inducing characteristics of the antibodies or antibody fragments. Peptides containing Arg Gly Asp RGD however have been used to deliver a number of molecules to tumor cells and associated angiogenesis including radioisotopes drugs proteins antibodies liposomes plasmids vectors and viruses. Although some RGD containing peptides bind to numerous integrins the peptide Lys Arg Gly Asp phe KRGDf SEQ ID NO 2 binds with excellent specificity. RGD peptides function most effectively as targeting peptides when they are cyclic. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the KRGDf targeting peptide is a cyclic peptide wherein K is bonded to f via an amide functional group using its amino group. This allows the amino of K to be free for attachment to the enzyme.

The present inventors use the novel strategy of employing an RGD containing peptide to deliver an enzyme to a tumor for the activation of a prodrug. This peptide directed enzyme prodrug therapy PeDEPT utilizes the high binding affinity and integrin specificity 1000 fold better for than for platelet receptor of KRGDf to localize prodrug activating enzymes to tumors. The primary advantage of PeDEPT is the small size of the peptide KRGDf M.W. approx. 600 resulting in a smaller peptide enzyme conjugate with superior pharmacokinetics and enzymatic efficiency relative to an antibody enzyme construct. Numerous studies have verified that a multivalent RGD peptide interaction with integrin can result in significant endocytosis of the peptide macromolecule construct. Therefore attachment of several KRGDf peptides per enzyme molecule triggers internalization of the prodrug activating conjugate and decreases the chances for successful PeDEPT by reducing the bystander effect. However the super activated state of which binds RGD peptides with very high affinity cannot transduce the proper signals needed for internalization. Additionally a single RGD fragment contained in a 30 kDa fusion protein CBD RGD is sufficient to create good binding affinity to overexpressing cells. By conjugating one to four molecules of KRGDf per enzyme molecule good binding affinity selectivity can be achieved without the risk of substantial peptide enzyme conjugate internalization. Therefore one embodiment of the present invention is a method of activating a prodrug at the surface of a cell by the separate administration of an enzyme that will specifically activate the prodrug linked to a peptide that binds to a protein on or in the target cells with great affinity. Using this PeDEPT approach the enzyme linked to the peptide is administered prior to the administration of the prodrug activated by that enzyme. Preferably the target cells are cancer cells and the peptide is a RGD peptide or an RGD peptide fragment that binds to integrin with high affinity. More preferably the peptide is KRGDf. Most preferably the peptide is KRGDf that is linked to the activating enzyme in a ratio of KRGDf peptide activating enzyme of between about 1 1 to about 4 1. In one embodiment of the present invention the enzyme is carboxypeptidase G2.

The immunogenicity of non native enzymes may be reduced by PEGylation. Introduction of a Cys residue in engineered proteins provides a free thiol for in site specific PEGylation. This method of reducing immunogenicity does have disadvantages however such as low yield of PEGylated protein and significant loss of enzymatic activity caused by the introduction of the Cys residue. Therefore this method can optionally be incorporated into the methods of delivering a prodrug activating enzyme to a target site of the present invention if the activating enzyme peptide conjugate is found to illicit an immunogenic reaction in the host.

Thus another embodiment of the present invention is a Doxaz prodrug that is activated by the enzyme carboxypeptidase G2 that is present at the surface of cancer cells by the prior administration of a tumor specific monoclonal antibody or peptide conjugated to the carboxypeptidase enzyme. This prodrug Doxaz COBAC Glu contains Doxazolidine conjugated to glutamic acid through at least one PABC spacer as shown in . Upon enzymatic cleavage by carboxypeptidase G2 a 1 6 elimination quickly releases the parent anthracycline Doxaz from the iminoquinone methide protecting group. The carboxypeptidase G2 activated prodrug of the present invention has the chemical structure of Formula VII 

Site specific activation of this prodrug requires the presence of carboxypeptidase G2 at the surface of the cancer cell s . As noted above the presence of this non native activating enzyme is achieved by the prior administration of a tumor specific monoclonal antibody or peptide conjugated to carboxypeptidase G2. Preferably the time between administration of the enzyme conjugated to the targeting antibody or peptide and this prodrug is about 7 hours. Further while a physician will determine the dosage of the enzyme used the dose of enzyme is preferably about 1000 units kg. The synthesis of this prodrug is described in Example 5 of this disclosure.

As described above a novel drug delivery strategy of the instant invention is the administration of a prodrug that is specifically activated to the active drug by a non native enzyme that is present at the target site of activation following the administration of that activating enzyme conjugated to a targeting peptide. The targeting peptide is chosen for its ability to bind to a protein present at the target site such as a protein expressed on the surface of a cancer cell and to successfully deliver activating enzyme to the target site. For the reasons explained above the target cells are preferably cancer cells and the peptide is preferably a RGD peptide or a RGD peptide fragment that binds to integrin with high affinity. More preferably the peptide is KRGDf. Most preferably the peptide is KRGDf that is linked to the activating enzyme in a ratio of KRGDf peptide activating enzyme of between about 1 1 to about 4 1. In this embodiment of the invention the enzyme is lactamase.

Therefore the present inventors have also designed a Doxaz prodrug that is activated by the enzyme lactamase that is present at the surface of cancer cells by the prior administration of a tumor specific monoclonal antibody or peptide conjugated to the lactamase enzyme. This prodrug Doxaz Cephem contains a carbamate of Doxazolidine conjugated to cephalosporanic acid. This lactamase activated prodrug of the present invention has the chemical structure of Formula VIII 

Site specific activation of this prodrug requires the presence of lactamase at the surface of the cancer cell s . The presence of this non native activating enzyme is achieved by the prior administration of a tumor specific monoclonal antibody or peptide conjugated to lactamase. Preferably the time between administration of the enzyme conjugated to the targeting antibody or peptide and this prodrug is about 7 hours. Further while a physician will determine the dosage of the enzyme used the dose of enzyme is preferably about 1000 units kg. The synthesis of this prodrug is described in Example 6 of this disclosure 

The anti cancer compounds of the present invention may possess a center of chirality and can exist as optical isomers. Both the racemates of these isomers and the individual isomers themselves as well as diastereomers when there are two chiral centers are within the scope of the present invention. The racemates can be used as such or can be separated into their individual isomers mechanically as by chromatography using a chiral adsorbent. Alternatively the individual isomers can be prepared in chiral form or separated chemically from a mixture so as to obtain either or both substantially free of the other i.e. in a form having an optical purity of 95 .

The present invention also pertains to the pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acid addition salts of the anti cancer doxazolidine compounds. Such salts include those derived from organic and inorganic acids such as without limitation hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid phosphoric acid sulfuric acid methanesulphonic acid acetic acid tartaric acid lactic acid succinic acid citric acid malic acid maleic acid sorbic acid aconitic acid salicylic acid phthalic acid embonic acid enanthic acid and the like.

The compositions are preferably formulated in unit dosage form meaning physically discrete units suitable as a unitary dosage or a predetermined fraction of a unitary dose to be administered in a single or multiple dosage regimen to human subjects and other mammals each unit containing a predetermined quantity of active material calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with a suitable pharmaceutical excipient. The compositions can be formulated so as to provide an irradiate sustained or delayed release of active ingredient after administration to the patient by employing procedures well known in the art.

Oral dosage forms include tablets capsules dragees and similar shaped compressed pharmaceutical forms containing from about 1 mg to about 100 mg of drug per unit dosage. Isotonic saline or dextrose solutions containing from about 20 mg mL to about 100 mg mL can be used for parenteral administration which includes intramuscular intrathecal intravenous and intra arterial routes of administration. Rectal administration can be effected through the use of suppositories formulated from conventional carriers such as cocoa butter.

Pharmaceutical compositions thus comprise one or more compounds of the present invention associated with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient. In preparing such compositions the active ingredients are usually mixed with or diluted by an excipient or enclosed within such a carrier which can be in the form of a capsule or sachet. When the excipient serves as a diluent it may be a solid semi solid or liquid material that acts as a vehicle carrier or medium for the active ingredient. Thus the compositions can be in the form of tablets pills powders elixirs suspensions emulsions solutions syrups soft and hard gelatin capsules suppositories sterile injectable solutions and sterile packaged powders. Examples of suitable excipients include lactose dextrose sucrose sorbitol mannitol starch gum acacia calcium silicate microcrystalline cellulose polyvinylpyrrolidinone polysorbate Cremophore ELP cellulose water syrup and methyl cellulose the formulations can additionally include lubricating agents such as talc magnesium stearate and mineral oil wetting agents emulsifying and suspending agents preserving agents such as methyl and propylhydroxybenzoates sweetening agents or flavoring agents.

These compounds can be administered by a variety of routes including oral rectal transdermal subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular and intranasal. These compounds are effective as both injectable and oral compositions. Such compositions are prepared in a manner well known in the pharmaceutical art and comprise at least one active compound.

The active doxazolidine compounds are effective over a wide dosage range and are generally administered in a pharmaceutically effective amount. It will be understood however that the amount of the compounds actually administered will be determined by a physician in the light of the relevant circumstances including the condition to be treated the chosen route of administration the actual compound administered the age weight and response of the individual patient the severity of the patient s symptoms and the like.

The tablets or pills of the present invention may be coated or otherwise compounded to provide a dosage form affording the advantage of prolonged action. For example the tablet or pill can comprise an inner dosage and an outer dosage component the latter being in the form of an envelope over the former. The two components can be separated by an enteric layer which serves to resist disintegration in the stomach and permit the inner component to pass intact into the duodenum or to be delayed in release. A variety of materials can be used for such enteric layers or coatings such materials including a number of polymeric acids and mixtures of polymeric acids with such materials as shellac cetyl alcohol and cellulose acetate.

The liquid forms in which the novel compositions of the present invention may be incorporated for administration orally or by injection include aqueous solutions suitably flavored syrups aqueous or oil suspensions and flavored emulsions with edible oils such as cottonseed oil sesame oil coconut oil or peanut oil as well as elixirs and similar pharmaceutical vehicles.

Compositions for inhalation or insufflation include solutions and suspensions in pharmaceutically acceptable aqueous or organic solvents or mixtures thereof and powders. The liquid or solid compositions may contain suitable pharmaceutically acceptable excipients as described supra. Preferably the compositions are administered by the oral or nasal respiratory route for local or systemic effect. Compositions in preferably pharmaceutically acceptable solvents may be nebulized by use of inert gases. Nebulized solutions may be breathed directly from the nebulizing device or the nebulizing device may be attached to a face masks or intermittent positive pressure breathing machine. Solution suspension or powder compositions may be administered preferably orally or nasally from devices that deliver the formulation in an appropriate manner.

Additional objects advantages and novel features of this invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following examples thereof which are not intended to be limiting.

Analytical HPLC injections were onto an Agilent Zorbax 5 m reverse phase octadecylsilyl ODS microbore column 4.6 mm i.d. 150 mm eluting at 1.0 mL min and the eluent was monitored at 280 and 480 nm. Analytical separation was achieved using method 1 parameters flow rate 1.0 mL min eluents A HPLC grade acetonitrile and B 20 mM triethylammonium acetate pH 7.4 gradient 25 75 A B at 0 min to 70 30 A B at 10 min isocratic to 11 min back to 25 75 A B at 13 min. HPLC method 2 parameters were used for monitoring hydrolysis of drugs flow rate 1.0 mL min eluents A HPLC grade acetonitrile and B 20 mM triethylammonium acetate pH 7.4 gradient 25 75 A B at 0 min to 56 44 A B at 7 min isocratic to 7.5 min back to 25 75 A B at 8.5 min isocratic to 9 min. Electrospray mass spectra were measured with a Perkin Elmer Sciex API III instrument Norwalk Conn. equipped with an ion spray source at atmospheric pressure.

Synthesis of Doxorubicin oxazolidine Doxazolidine Doxaz . The original syntheses of DoxF and its congeners Daunoform and Epidoxoform EpiF were all performed by reaction of the respective clinical drug as its hydrochloride salt with formalin an aqueous methanolic solution of formaldehyde in acetate buffer at pH 6. The dimeric conjugates were extracted into chloroform as they were formed.

Doxorubicin hydrochloride 40 mg 69 mol formulated with lactose clinical sample was dissolved in 100 mL of saturated sodium carbonate sodium bicarbonate buffer pH 8.5. The aqueous solution was then extracted three times with 250 mL of chloroform. The chloroform extracts were combined dried over sodium sulfate filtered and the chloroform was removed by rotary evaporation yielding doxorubicin as the free base. Doxorubicin free base 30 mg 55 mol was dissolved in 17 mL of deuteriochloroform 3.7 mM that had been dried over 4 molecular sieves for at least 24 h and the solution was degassed with argon. To this solution 10 mg of paraformaldehyde 30 by weight of doxorubicin was added and the solution was allowed to stir in the dark at ambient temperature 25 to 28 C. . Progress of the reaction was followed by H NMR and additional paraformaldehyde 10 mg was added at 2 and 4 days if further progress was not observed. After 7 days the reaction was complete as determined by observation of appearance of oxazolidine doublets at 4.31 ppm and 4.68 ppm and shift of the peak for the 5 methyl from 1.36 ppm to 1.34 ppm. The reaction mixture was filtered to remove excess paraformaldehyde and solvent removed by rotary evaporation to dryness followed by evacuation approx. 0.05 Torr for 30 min to give 22 mg of Doxaz 40 mmol 73 from doxorubicin free base isolated as a red film. Product was characterized and analyzed for purity by 500 MHz H NMR in chloroform d 90 pure . Positive ion electrospray mass spectrometry of a solution in THF showed a doubly charged ion at m z 278.8 M 2H 2 100 rel. intensity calc 278.8 . HPLC shows a peak for Doxaz at 6.6 min Doxorubicin elutes at 4.7 min HPLC was not reliable for product purity because of some hydrolysis to Doxorubicin during elution.

In contrast reaction of Doxorubicin free base in chloroform d solvent with larger amounts of paraformaldehyde the polymer of formaldehyde with monitoring by H NMR showed formation of Doxaz followed by formation of DoxF. Doxaz was isolated 90 pure 73 yield by stopping the reaction at an intermediate time with the only impurities being traces of Doxorubicin and DoxF. Correspondingly DoxF was isolated in greater than 90 purity 79 yield by allowing the reaction to continue again with the only impurity being Doxaz. The structure of Doxaz was established from an intense doubly charged molecular ion at m z 278.8 in the electrospray mass spectrum and from the high resolution H NMR data with all of the J couplings assigned in comparison with data for DoxF. Of particular note in the NMR spectrum of Doxaz is the absence of the singlet peak for the methylene connecting the two oxazolidine rings of DoxF and the characteristic small geminal coupling constant for the methylene protons of the oxazolidine.

The NMR data also partially establish the conformation of the daunosamine sugar of Doxaz and DoxF in chloroform solution as a chair. The proton at the 1 position is coupled approximately equally to the two protons at the 2 position in both structures indicating similar dihedral angles and a chair conformation. Although this is consistent with what others have observed in the crystal structures of various anthracycline antitumor drugs and in the crystal structures of Daunorubicin and Epidoxorubicin cross linking DNA it is not consistent with what is now observed in the crystal structure of DoxF.

Crystal structure of DoxF. X ray quality crystals were grown at the interface of a chloroform solution of DoxF and a mixture of ethyl acetate mixed with hexane. Crystallization of the DoxF was accomplished by placing 10 mg of the crude material inside a 4 mm i.d. glass tube and dissolving it in 0.5 mL of chloroform. The crystal was centered in the beam Mo K 0.71073 graphite monochromator . A preliminary orientation matrix and unit cell constants were determined by the collection of 60 10 s frames followed by spot integration and least squares refinement. A sphere of data were collected at 119 C. using 0.3 scans. Absorption correction was applied using SADABS. The data were corrected for Lorentz and polarization effects but no correction for crystal decay was applied. Structure solutions and refinements were performed SHELXTL Plus V5.0 on F squared. The data are indicative of a primitive trigonal cell. Systematic absences and intensity statistics suggested space groups P3 144 and P3 145 . Acceptable solution and refinement in space group P3was achieved with stereochemistry consistent with that known for DoxF. Since DoxF is a weak anomalous scatterer the Flack parameter was poorly defined but it is near zero 0.24 18 . The inverted structure gave unsatisfactory refinement in P3and a Flack parameter approaching unity. All non H atoms in the model were refined anisotropically. Hydrogens were placed in idealized positions and were included in structure factor calculations but were not refined.

The crystal structure shows a compact structure with the daunosamine sugars in a twist boat conformation and the anthraquinone rings in a stacking arrangement. The crystal structure shows an assortment of intramolecular and four notable intermolecular hydrogen bonds. Loss in stability from the twist boat sugar conformations in the solid state with little or no anomeric effect is clearly compensated partially through stacking but probably more importantly through favorable intermolecular interactions including hydrogen bonds.

In vitro Activity. ICmeasurements were performed by dissociating cells with trypsin EDTA counting and suspending the cells in growth media to a concentration of 5 10cells mL. This cell suspension was dispensed in 200 L aliquots 1000 cells well into the inside wells of 96 well tissue culture plates. Outside wells contained 200 L of media. Plates were then incubated for 24 h at 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere of 5 CO and 95 air. The medium was replaced with 90 L of growth medium prior to addition of the drug. Doxaz was dissolved in DMSO at concentrations ranging from 50 M to 1 mM. The concentration was then corrected by measuring the solution absorbance at 480 nm 11 500 Mcm . Serial dilutions 1 3 and 1 10 were made in sterile DMSO to yield seven solutions of decreasing drug concentration at 100 the respective working concentrations. The resulting solutions were individually diluted 1 10 in RPMI 1640 medium 10 L of the resulting 10 solution was immediately added to the appropriate lane of cells. Additionally two lanes were treated with 10 L of growth medium containing 10 sterile DMSO and one lane was treated with 90 L of 1.5 M Tris HCl. The cells were incubated at 37 C. for 3 h at which time the drug solutions were replaced with 200 L of fresh growth medium. The cells were then incubated for 5 days and the extent of colony formation was determined using a crystal violet staining assay measuring optical density at 588 and 770 nm.

Drug uptake was measured by flow cytometery. Cells were dissociated with trypsin EDTA counted and suspended in growth media to a concentration of 1 10cells mL. This cell suspension was dispensed in 2.5 mL aliquots into 6 well tissue culture plates. Plates were then incubated for 24 h at 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere of 5 COand 95 air. The growth media was replaced with 2 mL of fresh growth media prior to addition of the drug. Doxaz DoxF and Doxorubicin HCl were dissolved in DMSO each at a concentration of 50 M. The concentration was then corrected by measuring the solution absorbance at 480 nm 11 500 Mcm . Drug solution 20 L was added to an individual well and was incubated for 5 min 15 min 30 min 1 h 2 h or 3 h at 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere of 5 COand 95 air. All drug treatments were performed so all treatment times would end simultaneously. After treatment culture media was removed cells washed once with 0.5 mL HBSS washed once with 0.5 mL trypsin EDTA and 0.5 mL trypsin EDTA was added and cells were incubated for 5 min. After all cells were trypsinized cells were aspirated with 1.5 mL cold D PBS Dulbecco s phosphate buffered saline no calcium or magnesium and this solution was added to 3 mL of cold D PBS 4.5 mL total D PBS in a conical vial. Cells were centrifuged at 200 g for 5 min and D PBS was decanted off. Cells were washed once more in 5 mL cold D PBS centrifuged at 200 g for 5 min and D PBS was decanted off. The cells were then aspirated with 1 mL D PBS placed in a sample tube and kept on ice until needed with FACScan. Cells were analyzed with excitation at 488 nm 15 mW Ar ion laser with emission monitored between 570 nm and 600 nm. Instrument settings were optimized for the cell line and held constant for all experiments for the anthracycline fluorescence analysis 10 000 cells were analyzed for each sample. The data are presented as the mean fluorescence for each condition.

Hydrolysis of Doxaz or DoxF in RPMI medium was performed by dissociating the cells with trypsin EDTA counting and then suspending the cells in growth media to a concentration of 5 10cells mL. This cell suspension was dispensed in 200 L aliquots 1000 cells well into the inside wells of 96 well tissue culture plates. Plates were then incubated for 24 h at 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere of 5 CO and 95 air. The medium was replaced with 180 L of growth medium prior to addition of the drug. RPMI media no serum added was divided into 5 mL aliquots in conical vials and heated to 37 C. in a constant temperature bath. Doxaz and DoxF were dissolved in DMSO at a concentration of 1 mM equivalents. The concentration was then corrected by measuring the solution absorbance at 480 nm 11 500 Mcm . Drug solution 50 l was added to an individual conical vial and the drug was allowed to hydrolyze at 10 M for 0 10 20 30 45 60 75 or 90 min. Experiments were performed such that all hydrolysis times would end simultaneously. After hydrolysis 20 L of the drug solution was added to a lane of wells on the 96 well plate to give a final concentration of 1 M equivalents sum of Doxorubicin Doxaz and or DoxF for treatment of cells. Additionally two lanes were treated with 20 L of growth medium containing 1 sterile DMSO for a control. The cells were incubated at 37 C. for 3 h at which time the drug solutions were replaced with 200 L of fresh growth media. The cells were then incubated for 5 days and the extent of colony formation was determined using a crystal violet staining assay measuring optical density at 588 and 770 nm.

Hydrolysis of DoxF in RPMI medium or 100 human serum was performed as described above except drug hydrolysis was performed at 1 M equivalents and drug treatment was at 100 nM equivalents. During drug treatment the medium was either 90 RPMI 10 FBS or 90 RPMI 10 human serum. During cell growth the medium was 90 RPMI 10 FBS.

The inhibition of growth of three breast and one prostate cancer cell lines by Doxorubicin DoxSF DoxF and Doxaz is compared in Table 1.

These data show that DoxF and Doxaz inhibit 50 growth at approximately the same concentration for each cell line and inhibit growth at one to greater than three orders of magnitude lower concentration than Doxorubicin. The more dramatic difference occurs with the multidrug resistant MCF 7 Adr cells that overexpress P 170 glycoprotein efflux pump amongst other resistance mechanisms. The ability of Doxaz to inhibit the growth of MCF 7 Adr cells as well as DoxF is illustrated in which shows cell growth as a function of drug treatment within a single experiment. All data points fall on the same growth inhibition curve. Growth inhibition parallels drug uptake as measured by flow cytometry measuring drug fluorescence as a function of time after drug treatment MCF 7 Adr cells take up significantly more DoxF and Doxaz than Doxorubicin as shown in .

Doxaz stability in DMSO. Doxaz 22 mg 40 mol was dissolve in 1 mL of DMSO d stored over activated 4 molecular sieves and analyzed for purity by 500 MHz H NMR. After a 10 dilution with DMSO to a concentration of 4 mM the stability of Doxaz was then followed by HPLC observing the relative peak area of the Doxaz peak at 6.6 min with constant injection volume. Doxaz hydrolyzed at a rate of 

Both DoxF and Doxaz are relatively stable in dry chloroform and dry DMSO over a period of days. In dry DMSO Doxaz hydrolyzes to Doxorubicin at less than 2 per day at ambient temperature. In aqueous medium DoxF is very hydrolytically unstable with respect to formation of Doxaz and Doxaz is hydrolytically unstable with respect to formation of Doxorubicin. Injection of DoxF on reverse phase HPLC only shows peaks for Doxaz and Doxorubicin. Consequently HPLC was used to monitor the kinetics of hydrolysis of Doxaz to Doxorubicin at 14 C. as a function of pH. The rate constant for hydrolysis at pH 7.5 corresponds to a half life of 16 min. The hydrolysis was too rapid to measure the rate at 37 C. Extrapolation using the rough rule that the rate will double for every 10 C. increase in temperature gives an estimation of the half life at pH 7.4 and 37 C. of 3 to 4 min. The rate constant increases with decreasing pH except for the transition from pH 10.4 to pH 9.0 where the rate constant decreases slightly. At pH 10.5 the solution appears purple indicative of deprotonation at one of the hydroquinone functional groups. Hence at this pH at least some of the Doxaz has a different charge state. The higher rate at low pH is consistent with acid catalysis probably assisting hydrolytic ring opening as the slow step. Which bond of the oxazolidine ring is broken first the CH O bond or the CH NH bond is unknown but may be relevant to a small portion of the biological activity. An intermediate from CH NH bond cleavage would be an unlikely candidate for cross linking DNA based upon the NMR and crystal structures of the virtual cross link which all show a diaminomethane linkage. An intermediate from CH O bond cleavage should be the same reactive intermediate produced by hydrolysis of DoxSF . With an acid catalyzed mechanism CH O bond cleavage would be favored by protonation on oxygen and CH NH bond cleavage would be favored by protonation on nitrogen. This analysis of the ring opening reaction of Doxaz under hydrolytic conditions is relevant to a subsequent discussion of the direct reaction of Doxaz with DNA.

A functional measure of the rate of hydrolysis of Doxaz to Doxorubicin and DoxF to Doxorubicin is the effect of pre hydrolysis as a function of time on the growth of MCF 7 Adr cells. This technique provides kinetic information because the concentration of Doxaz at time zero is 1 M and at this concentration the product of hydrolysis Doxorubicin has little activity. The result is shown in starting with either Doxaz or DoxF at 1000 nM equivalents at 37 C. in RPMI 1640 media and in starting with 100 nM equivalents of DoxF in either RPMI 1640 media or in 100 human serum. The media during cell growth was RPMI 1640 containing 10 fetal bovine serum in all the experiments in . The data in give an estimate for the half lives of Doxaz and DoxF at 37 C. in cell culture media. This estimate comes from the ICvalue for cell growth inhibition by Doxaz and DoxF of approximately 2 nM and the requirement of nine hydrolytic half lives to reach 2 nM Doxaz starting at 1000 nM equivalents. Note that after 9 half lives no DoxF will be present because the rate of hydrolysis of DoxF to Doxaz is much faster than the rate of hydrolysis of Doxaz to Doxorubicin. shows 50 growth inhibition by Doxaz after about 8 min for hydrolysis and by DoxF after about 13 min. From these times the half life of Doxaz is estimated at 8 9 or approximately 1 min and the half life of DoxF at 13 9 or approximately 1.5 min. From the data in human serum is estimated to extend the half life of DoxF to about 3 min. For this calculation six half lives are required to reach 2 nM Doxaz from the starting concentration of 100 nM equivalents of DoxF. Human serum may double the life of DoxF through hydrophobic interactions with proteins.

Analytical HPLC injections referenced below were onto an Agilent Zorbax 5 m reverse phase octadecylsilyl ODS column 4.6 mm i.d. 150 mm eluting at 1.0 mL min with a gradient of acetonitrile 20 mM triethylammonium acetate buffer pH 7.4 and the eluent was monitored at 280 and 480 nm. Electrospray mass spectra were measured with a Perkin Elmer Sciex API III instrument Norwalk Conn. equipped with an ion spray source at atmospheric pressure.

Synthesis and characterization of simple Doxazolidine carbamates. The synthesis of simple Doxaz carbamates was achieved by addition of the modestly nucleophilic Doxaz to the desired alkyl chloroformate buffered by 1.1 equiv of dimethylaminopyridine DMAP or to the desired alkyl p nitrophenyl carbonate . The crude Doxaz carbamates were purified directly by radial chromatography and obtained in good yield. The structures were established from one and two dimensional NMR spectra and mass spectral molecular ions. Two dimensional homonuclear NMR experimental data facilitated the assignment of proton NMR resonances. Resonances in the ambient temperature NMR spectra showed line broadening indicating conformational exchange at a rate similar to the NMR time scale.

Biological activity of simple Doxazolidine carbamates. Since the prodrug carbamates were designed to be activated by carboxylesterases CES1 hCE1 and or CES2 hiCE cell lines of interest were measured for expression of the respective mRNAs using reverse transcription RT followed by PCR polymerase chain reaction . Cancer cell lines investigated included SHP 77 resistant small cell lung DU 145 prostate MCF 7 sensitive breast MCF 7 Adr resistant breast SK HEP 1 liver and Hep G2 liver cells. As a measure of possible cardiotoxicity H9c2 2 1 rat cardiomyocytes were also investigated. Cardiotoxicity is relevant because the ultimate product of metabolism and subsequent hydrolysis of these carbamates is doxorubicin which is cardiotoxic. The results of the RT PCR showed that both liver cancer cell lines SK HEP 1 and Hep G2 strongly express the mRNA for CES2 however only the Hep G2 cell line strongly expresses the mRNA for CES DU 145 MCF 7 and MCF 7 Adr cells express more CES2 than CES1 and SHP 77 cells express both enzymes but in lesser amounts than Hep G2 cells. Additionally the rat cardiomyocytes H9c2 2 1 also express more CES2 than CES1.

Cell growth inhibition experiments initially focused on MCF 7 MCF 7 Adr SK HEP 1 and Hep G2 cancer cells as well as rat cardiomyocytes as a measure of cardiotoxicity and Vero cells green monkey kidney cells as an additional measure of normal cell toxicity. The butyl and pentyl carbamates inhibited the growth of MCF 7 MCF 7 Adr and SK HEP 1 cell lines with a 24 h drug treatment period with some selectivity for cancer cells over cardiomyocytes relative to growth inhibition by Dox as shown in Table 2. The ethyl carbamate with the least complex structure exhibited poor cancer cell growth inhibition. The relative inactivity of the ethyl carbamate may indicate that a substantial lipophilic interaction is required at the active site of the carboxylesterases to hold the Doxaz substrate. A control experiment showed that the pentyl carbamate is stable to hydrolysis in pH 7.4 buffer in the absence of cells or growth media over 24 h at ambient temperature monitoring the reaction by HPLC.

Uptake of the pentyl carbamate relative to uptake of Dox was measured by flow cytometry monitoring fluorescence of the Dox fluorophore as a measure of drug in cells. The measurements were performed over a period of 3 h in the presence and absence of fetal bovine serum and the results are shown in . Clearly the pentyl carbamate was taken up at a higher level and more rapidly than Dox. Further the presence of 10 fetal bovine serum decreased the uptake of doxorubicin and the pentyl carbamate by about 25 . The more rapid uptake of the pentyl carbamate in the presence and absence of serum probably reflects its increased hydrophobicity relative to that of doxorubicin which is a cation at physiological pH. Increased hydrophobicity may also be the explanation for the effect of serum on the uptake of the carbamate namely the carbamate binds to serum proteins reducing drug uptake.

Synthesis and characterization of Doxazolidine carbamates with self eliminating spacer. The growth inhibition data together with experience with prodrugs suggested drug efficacy might be improved by adding a self eliminating spacer between the alkyl carbamate functionality and the anthracycline. This could present the lipophilic carbamate to the enzyme with significantly less steric bulk and increase the rate of enzymatic hydrolysis. The spacer was incorporated by reacting PABA with the desired chloroformate followed by conversion to the p nitrophenyl carbonate ester and reaction with Doxaz. The structures again were established from NMR spectra and mass spectral molecular ions.

Biological activity of Doxazolidine carbamates with self eliminating spacer. Growth inhibition experiments with butyl and pentyl carbamates bearing the PABC self eliminating spacer focused on Hep G2 liver cancer cells that strongly express both CES1 and CES2 and SK HEP 1 cells that express significantly more CES2 than CES1. SHP 77 small cell lung cancer cells were also of interest because they express modest amounts of both enzymes. Inhibition of the growth of cardiomyocytes was used as a measure of cardiotoxicity and inhibition of the growth of Vero cells green monkey kidney cells was again used as another measure of toxicity to normal cells. Clearly both the butyl and pentyl carbamates with PABC spacer are more active than the simple carbamates as shown in Table 3. They also show more activity against the cancer cells that express higher levels of CES1. Of particular note is the higher activity against Hep G2 cells than against SK HEP 1 cells. This suggests that CES1 is more active than CES2. Pentyl PABC Doxaz also shows more than one order of magnitude lower toxicity to cardiomyocytes and Vero cells than to Hep G2 and SHP 77 cells. The low toxicity of pentyl PABC Doxaz to cardiomyocytes relative to the toxicity of Dox is encouraging and consistent with the low level of expression of CES1 in cardiomyocytes.

Uptake of pentyl PABC Doxaz and Dox by multidrug resistant MCF 7 Adr breast cancer cells and SK HEP 1 liver cancer cells in the presence of fetal bovine serum was determined by flow cytometry using drug fluorescence as a measure of drug in cells. Pentyl PABC Doxaz is taken up much better by both cell lines than Dox.

Synthesis. Plasmin activated prodrugs of the present invention were synthesized starting with solid phase peptide synthesis as shown in . The synthesis of the prodrug compounds of Formulas IV and V of the present disclosure corresponding to compounds 6 and 10 of respectively was facilitated by the fact that the final amine deprotection could be carried out under mild reaction conditions after formation of the peptide Doxaz carbamate.

Formula V aFK PABC PABC Doxaz Compound 10 of having an elongated spacer was also synthesized for comparison of enzymatic efficiency.

Using Formula IV aFK PABC Doxaz Compound 10 as an example another strategy for the synthesis of Formulas IV and V is shown in . Solid phase Fmoc peptide synthesis methodology was used with the Fmoc PABA directly attached to the resin via its alcohol functional group and the protected amino acids were added sequentially from the amino group of the PABA. The amino of L Lys and the amino terminus of D Ala were protected using the orthogonal allyloxycarbonyl group alloc . The first coupling of the alloc L Lys required additional reaction time because of the low reactivity of the anilino functional group. After cleavage of alloc D Ala L Phe L alloc Lys PABA from the resin its benzyl alcohol was activated with p nitrophenylchloroformate and the PNP derivative coupled to a preformed mixture of Doxazolidine and Doxoform. The yield of alloc D Ala L Phe L alloc Lys PABC Doxaz was independent of the composition of this mixture. The alloc protecting groups where removed with palladium tetrakistriphenylphosphine and Formula IV aFK PABC Doxaz was isolated as its bis hydrochloride salt by protonation with anhydrous hydrogen chloride in ethyl acetate. The structures of intermediates and the final product were established by high resolution NMR and mass spectrometry. In particular alloc D Ala L Phe L alloc Lys PABC Doxaz was extensively studied by two dimensional NMR including homonuclear COSY NOSY HSQC and HMBC spectra to assign the proton resonances and most of the carbon resonances.

Both Formula IV and V exhibit excellent water solubility and much improved stability 6 hours with respect to hydrolysis of the oxazolidine ring in aqueous media at pH 7.4.

Plasmin activation and release of active Doxaz. Plasmin cleaves prodrug Formulas IV and V aFK PABC Doxaz and aFK PABC PABC Doxaz at the anilide functional group between the Lys and PABC groups. The resulting aniline derivatives should then undergo spontaneous 1 6 elimination of p aminobenzoquinone methide to give the carbamic acid of doxazolidine. Spontaneous decarboxylation of the carbamic acid then gives Doxaz.

Both Formulas IV and V were incubated with 15 g ml human plasmin and monitored by HPLC at 37 C. Just 4 min after the addition of plasmin 20 percent of compound 10 was converted to Doxaz and roughly 50 of that Doxaz had hydrolyzed to Doxorubicin. Within 23 minutes nearly all of the prodrug was converted to Doxaz and subsequently hydrolyzed to Doxorubicin. Scheeren and co workers reported that the equivalent Doxorubicin prodrug ST 9905 exhibited similar kinetics and showed no conversion to Doxorubicin after incubation in bovine serum for 3 days.

Activity of plasmin activated prodrugs. In spite of Doxaz s short half life both plasmin activated prodrugs of Formula IV and V exhibit superior cancer cell growth inhibition IC 0.005 M in the presence of 15 g ml plasmin for both sensitive and multidrug resistant cancer cells as shown in Table 4.

A critical discovery of this research is that both the compounds of Formula IV and V have ICvalues of 1 M against rat cardiomyocytes in the presence of aprotinin a plasmin inhibitor whereas Doxoruhicin s ICvalue is 0.02 M. In vivo the plasmin inhibitors prevalent throughout the bloodstream prevent the cardiotoxic side effects of the prodrugs. This indicated that the plasmin activated prodrug Formulas IV and V were very promising prodrugs possessing the superior cytotoxicity and reduced cardiotoxicity of Doxaz relative to Doxorubicin.

A more thorough characterization of the growth inhibition of a variety of cancer cells as well as rat cardiomyocytes by Formula IV aFK PABC Doxaz was evaluated in comparison with inhibition of growth by Doxaz Dox and aFK PABC Dox. Cells were treated with drug for 3 h and colony growth was measured at 3 to 5 days when cells reached about 80 confluence. The cancer cells included one prostate cancer cell line DU 145 three related breast cancer cell lines MCF 7 MCF 7 Adr and MCF 7 uPA and one pancreatic cancer cell line Mia PaCa 2 . The breast cancer cell lines represent the multi drug resistant MDR phenotype with MCF 7 Adr cells and a cell line that is transfected with the gene for urokinase plasminogen activator uPA the primary enzyme responsible for cleavage of plasminogen to plasmin. Rat cardiomyocytes served as a model for comparison of drug cardiotoxicity. Growth inhibition was also measured with added plasmin. aFK PABC Doxaz inhibited the growth of most of the cancer cells 0.5 log or more better than did aFK PABA Dox. Although not as dramatic this differential response paralleled the differential response between Doxaz and Dox which is approximately two logs except for the MDR expressing MCF 7 Adr cells which show more than three logs differential response. In fact aFK PABC Doxaz but not aFK PABC Dox shows significant activity against these MDR expressing cells. Addition of 0.01 unit mL of plasmin has no effect on the activity of Dox but increases the activity of both aFK PABC Doxaz and aFK PABC Dox in some cases by more than a log. Addition of 0.01 unit mL plasminogen increases the activity of aFK PABC Doxaz on average by 0.3 log. Rat cardiomyocytes are susceptible to both Dox and Doxaz but less susceptible to either aFK PABC Doxaz or aFK PABC Dox except upon addition of plasmin. The cell growth inhibition experiments support aFK PABC Doxaz functioning as it was designed to function and with a log higher activity than aFK PABC Dox.

Synthesis. The synthesis of a Doxazolidine glucuronide prodrug conjugate that is activated by glucuronidase Doxaz PABC glucuronide is shown in . The oxazolidine ring resembles an acetal in that it is stable under basic conditions but is hydrolyzed by dilute acid. With this in mind hydrolysis of the three glucuronate acetate groups to give Doxaz PABC glucuronide will be performed with 3 equivalents of sodium methoxide at 0 C. All compounds will be purified by silica gel chromatography radial chromatography or preparative reverse phase HPLC. All intermediates will be characterized by H NMR C NMR and MS and their state of purity established by analytical reverse phase HPLC. Final products will be characterized using mass spectrometry one and two dimensional NMR reverse phase HPLC and elemental analysis.

Synthesis. The synthesis of a Doxazolidine glutamic acid prodrug conjugate that is activated by carboxypeptidase G2 Doxaz COBAC Glu Formula VII is shown in .

Bis allyl t butyldiphenylsilyloxy p benzylaminocarbonyl L glutamate 4 . To a stirred solution of 400 mg 1.03 mmol of t butyldiphenylsilyloxy p benzylisocyanate 2 in 2.0 mL of THF was added dropwise a solution containing 1.05 mmol of triethylamine and 234 mg 1.03 mmol of bis allyl L glutamate 3 in 2.0 mL of THF over the course of 30 min at room temperature. After 5 h the reaction was complete. The precipitate was filtered off and the filtrate concentrated under vacuum. The resulting yellow oil was dissolved in 25 mL of EtOAc and washed with 25 mL of distilled water 25 mL of HCl 1 25 mL saturated NaCOand 25 mL 2 of distilled water. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated resulting in a pale yellow oil. Radial chromatography using a 4 mm plate eluted with 2 1 EtOAc cyclohexane resulted in the isolation of 418 mg of a pale yellow oil 4 in 66 yield.

Alternative method for 4. A three necked round bottom flask equipped with a stir bar and addition funnel was charged with 14.7 mL of a 0.300 M 4.40 mmol solution of 3 in toluene. To this mixture 0.436 g 1.47 mmol of triphosgene was added in one portion at 78 C. The addition funnel was charged with 0.613 mL 4.40 mmol of triethylamine in 10 mL of toluene. This solution was added dropwise over 40 min. The reaction mixture was then allowed to reach room temperature and monitored by IR spectroscopy. The formation of an isocyanate peak at 2254 cmreached a maximum in 120 min. The addition funnel was then charged with 1.55 g 4.30 mmol of t butyldiphenylsilyloxy p benzylamine 1 in 9.35 mL of toluene and 0.613 4.40 mmol triethylamine. This solution was added dropwise over 30 min. The resulting reaction mixture was monitored by IR specrospcopy for the disappearance of the isocyanate peak and was complete after 8 h. The reaction mixture was filtered concentrated dissolved in 60 mL EtOAc and washed with 60 mL distilled water 60 mL of HCl 1 60 mL of saturated NaCOand 60 mL 2 of distilled water. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous sulfate filtered and concentrated resulting in a white solid immersed in a pale yellow oil. Radial chromatography using a 4 mm Chromotatron plate eluted with 1 5 EtOAc to cyclohexane resulted in the isolation of 4 as a pale yellow oil in 54 yield.

Bis allyl hydroxy p benzylaminocarbonyl L glutamate 5 . A 1.0 M solution of tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1.0 mL in THF was transferred to a dry flask under argon. Acetic acid was added dropwise to adjust the pH of the solution to approximately 5 as evidenced by wide range pH paper. A 0.1 mL aliquot 0.1 mmol TBAF of this acidified solution was transferred under argon to a dry flask containing 20.0 mg 0.033 mmol of the protected alcohol 4 in 0.5 mL of freshly distilled THF. The reaction was left to stir under a static argon. As evidenced by silica gel TLC eluted with 1 1 EtOAc cyclohexane. The reaction was complete after 48 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated and dissolved in 20 mL of EtOAc. This organic layer was extracted 3 times with distilled water 45 mL total dried with anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The resulting pale yellow oil was purified by radial chromatography using 2 1 EtOAc cyclohexane. A pale yellow oil 8.5 g was isolated corresponding to a yield of 75 .

Bis allyl p nitrobenzyloxycarbonyloxy p benzylaminocarbonyl L glutamate 6 . Alcohol 5 8.50 mg 0.0226 mmol was left under high vacuum for 24 h. This dry flask was purged with argon and to it added 1 mL of freshly distilled THF and 1 mL of freshly distilled CHClto bring the alcohol concentration to 0.0113 M. To this was added 11.5 mg 0.0588 mmol of 4 nitrophenylmethylchloroformate and 4.75 l 0.0565 mmol of freshly distilled pyridine. The reaction was left to stir under static argon for 48 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated then dissolved in 15 mL of EtOAc. This organic layer was washed twice with 15 mL of Brine dried over anhydrous sulfate and concentrated. The resulting yellow oil which solidified on standing was purified by radial chromatography in 2 1 EtOAc cyclohexane yielding a white solid in 32 yield.

Bis allyl N Doxazolidinylcarbonyloxy p benzylaminocarbonyl L glutamate 7 . To a dry round bottom flask is added the carbonate ester 6 and 1.5 to 2.9 equiv of doxoform in minimal dry DMSO. The mixture is stirred under argon and the reaction monitored by HPLC. After 4 days the carbonate ester 6 is consumed and the solution divided into two equal portions. Each portion is then diluted with 100 mL of PBS causing the precipitation of all compounds joined to doxorubicin. The precipitate is pelletized by centrifugation at 3000 g and 10 C. for 10 min to remove p nitrophenol. This is repeated eight times using 80 mL of PBS each time followed once with 80 mL of distilled water to remove any salts. The crude product from each portion is purified by silica gel radial chromatography injecting the product in and eluting with 30 1 CHCl MeOH.

N Doxazolidinylcarbonyloxy p benzylaminocarbonyl L glutamic acid Doxaz COBAC Glu Formula VII 8 . To a centrifugation tube containing 10 mg of protected prodrug 7 is added 3 mL of a 2 1 mixture of dichloromethane THF. The solvent is degassed with argon then 10 equiv of dry morpholine is added followed by 0.2 to 0.5 equiv of tetrakistriphenylphosphine Pd. The reaction is stirred under argon for 1 h in the dark. The stir bar is removed and the reaction mixture is centrifuged at 3000 g for 15 min. The supernatant is removed and the remaining solids are dissolved in chloroform methanol and purified by radial chromatography. The solid product is then dried under high vacuum for 18 h to yield prodrug 8.

Synthesis. The synthesis of a Doxazolidine cephalosporin prodrug conjugate that is activated by lactamase Doxaz Cephem Formula VIII is shown in .

p Nitrophenyl carbonate of cephalosporin 14 . To a 25 ml round bottom flask was added alcohol cephalosporin alcohol 13 0.3 mmol was 6 mg of dichloromethane followed by 38 L of pyridine. This solution was stirred under nitrogen and to it was added 90.7 mg of p nitrophenyl chloroformate. The solution was stirred under static nitrogen for 24 h. At this point distilled water was added and washed in a separatory funnel. This was followed by washes with saturated sodium carbonate and then saturated sodium chloride. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate filtered and then concentrated under low vacuum followed by high vacuum. The resulting oil was purified using radial silica gel chromatography eluting with 160 1 chloroform methanol. The yield for this reaction was from 50 to 70 and the structure was established by NMR spectroscopy.

Allyl Doxaz Cephem 15 . To a 10 mL dry round bottom flask under argon was added p nitrophenyl carbonate of cephalosporin 14 followed by a saturated solution of DoxF in DMSO. The ratio of DoxF was 2 1 with respect to the cephalosporin derivative. The reaction mixture was stirred for four days under static argon at which point the solution was concentrated. The resulting mixture was washed 3 to 5 times with saturated sodium carbonate and concentrated. The resulting solid was purified using radial silica gel chromatography eluting with 30 1 chloroform methanol to yield coupled product allyl Doxaz Cephem 15 in 10 yield. The product was characterized by NMR spectroscopy. The spectral data were obtained at 50 C. because the compound exhibited conformational dynamics on the NMR time scale. A byproduct with the double bond of the cephalosporin ring migrated was isolated in 15 yield from the radial chromatography of the reaction mixture and was also characterized by one and two dimensional NMR spectroscopy. The spectral data were again obtained at 50 C. because the compound exhibited conformational dynamics on the NMR time scale.

Doxaz Cephem Formula VIII . To a centrifugation tube containing 10 mg of allyl Doxaz Cephem 15 is added 3 mL of a 2 1 mixture of dichloromethane THF. The solvent is degassed with argon then 10 equiv of dry morpholine is added followed by 0.2 to 0.5 equiv of tetrakistriphenylphosphine Pd. The reaction is stirred under argon for 1 h in the dark. The stir bar is removed and the reaction mixture is centrifuged at 3030 g for 15 min. The supernatant is removed and the remaining solids suspended in ethyl acetate. The suspension is acidified with 0.5 M dry HCl in ethyl acetate then centrifuged. The acidic supernatant is removed fresh ethyl acetate is added and then the suspension centrifuged again. This is repeated a total of four times. The solid product is then dried under high vacuum for 18 h to yield Doxaz Cephem Formula VIII and characterized by NMR spectroscopy and mass spectrometry.

Activation. The activation of Doxaz Cephem by the enzymatic action of lactamase to release the active Doxaz from the cephalosporanic acid residue is depicted in .

The foregoing description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. Furthermore the description is not intended to limit the invention to the form disclosed herein. Consequently variations and modifications commensurate with the above teachings and the skill or knowledge of the relevant art are within the scope of the present invention. The embodiment described hereinabove is further intended to explain the best mode known for practicing the invention and to enable others skilled in the art to utilize the invention in such or other embodiments and with various modifications required by the particular applications or uses of the present invention. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to include alternative embodiments to the extent permitted by the prior art.

