---

title: Cryogenic immersion microscope
abstract: A cryogenic immersion microscope whose objective lens is at least partially in contact with a liquid reservoir of a cryogenic liquid, in which reservoir a sample of interest is immersed is disclosed. When the cryogenic liquid has an index of refraction that reduces refraction at interfaces between the lens and the sample, overall resolution and image quality are improved. A combination of an immersion microscope and x-ray microscope, suitable for imaging at cryogenic temperatures is also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07852554&OS=07852554&RS=07852554
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 07852554
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060420
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Patent Provisional Application 60 673 274 filed Apr. 20 2005 and is a U.S. National Phase filing of Patent Application PCT US2006 15162 filed Apr. 20 2006 both of which are incorporated by reference herein. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 911 960 filed. Oct. 18 2007.

The invention described and claimed herein was made in part utilizing funds supplied by the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract Number DE AC03 76SF00098 and by the National Institutes of Health under Grant Number R01 GM63948 03. The U.S. government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates generally to the field of microscopy and more specifically to immersion microscopy at cryogenic temperatures.

Oil and water immersion microscopes have been utilized for many years and a wide variety of microscope designs using immersion liquids are commercially available. The fundamental features of an immersion microscope are shown in . A specimen to be viewed is mounted on a transparent substrate beneath a transparent coverslip . A substage light source condenser illuminates the specimen through the substrate and the coverslip .

An objective lens is positioned above the coverslip and the specimen . Light collected by the objective lens passes through additional lenses and optical elements of the microscope and is sent to an image acquisition system for viewing by a scientist or researcher for example. The image acquisition system may be an eyepiece CCD camera or any other system or apparatus used to collect and or display images of the specimen .

Between the objective and the coverslip is an index matching liquid typically some type of oil although many different liquids may be used. The liquid advantageously has an index of refraction that matches the coverslip and objective so that no refraction occurs at the interfaces between these components and the liquid .

The index matching liquid between the coverslip and the objective increases the amount of light collected by the objective reduces internal reflections and improves the overall resolution and image quality produced by the microscope especially under high magnifying powers.

Prior to the present invention immersion microscopy had not been performed on specimens at low temperature. Although the need for obtaining magnified images of frozen specimens exists in many applications the advantages of liquid immersion have never been achieved due either to freezing of the index matching liquid d or melting of the frozen specimen.

in one aspect the invention comprises a microscope whose objective lens is at least partially in contact with a liquid reservoir of cryogen in which reservoir a sample of interest is immersed. When the cryogen has an index of refraction that reduces refraction at interfaces between the lens and the sample overall resolution and image quality are improved. Such immersion microscopy at cryogenic temperatures has not heretofore been achieved.

The invention also includes methods of performing immersion microscopy. In one embodiment a method of microscopic imaging comprises cooling at least a portion of an objective lens and a sample to a cryogenic temperature illuminating the sample with radiation and collecting at least a portion of the illuminating radiation with the objective lens so as to create a magnified image of the sample.

In another embodiment an optical microscope is combined with an x ray microscope. This embodiment may include a sample stage configured to place samples in a path of optical illumination for optical microscopy and to also place samples in a path of x ray illumination for x ray microscopy. The samples may be held at a cryogenic temperature during both optical and x ray microscopy. Thus correlations between light images and x ray images from the same sample and at cryogenic temperatures can be made.

The following detailed description is directed to certain specific embodiments of the invention. However the invention can be embodied in a multitude of different ways. In this description reference is made to the drawings wherein like parts are designated with like numerals throughout.

Referring now to one embodiment of a cryogenic immersion microscope is illustrated. In this system a specimen is fixed inside a cylindrical sample holder . The sample holder is immersed in a reservoir of a cryogenic liquid . The cryogenic liquid is inside a container which advantageously includes at least one transparent wall or wall portion that allows light from a condenser light source to pass through the specimen and into an objective lens . The objective lens extends through an opening in the container and is at least partially immersed in the cryogenic liquid that is to say that at least one surface the surface facing the sample holder is at least partially in contact with the cryogenic liquid . As with the conventional microscope system described above the objective lens is optically coupled to additional imaging optics lenses and routes the image to an acquisition system .

With this system the both objective lens and the specimen are at cryogenic temperatures which is a novel aspect of this system. In this specification the term cryogenic temperature is intended to mean temperatures less than 273 degrees K. In some embodiments the temperature of the cryogenic liquid will be less than about 200 degrees K. In other embodiments of the invention the temperature of the cryogenic liquid and thus the sample and the objective lens is less than about 100 degrees K. A convenient temperature is approximately 77 degrees K as that is the temperature of liquid nitrogen an inexpensive and readily available coolant. In some arrangements the cryogenic liquid is a liquid at cryogenic temperature and atmospheric pressure and becomes a gas at standard ambient temperature and atmospheric pressure.

Furthermore if an appropriate cryogenic liquid that has a relatively high index of refraction the benefits of liquid immersion microscopy described above can be obtained with this instrument. In this regard liquid propane cooled to below 100 K with liquid nitrogen has been found suitable for use as a cryogenic immersion liquid . Liquid propane has the desired high refraction index and is a liquid at atmospheric pressures and liquid nitrogen temperatures. Other cryogenic liquids can be used as well. One example is isopropyl alcohol cooled with dry ice to about 190 K. Any other short chain hydrocarbon such as ethane butane pentane and all their isomers halogen substituted hydrocarbons silanes alcohols ethers ketones aromatic hydrocarbons and mixtures thereof can also be used. A cryogenic liquid can be selected based on its being in the liquid phase at the desired experimental temperatures and pressures. It is useful that the cryogenic liquid have a refractive index somewhat close to the refractive index of the objective lens. In some embodiments the refractive index of the cryogenic liquid is within 15 of the refractive index of the objective lens. In some embodiments the refractive index of the cryogenic liquid is within 10 of the refractive index of the objective lens. In some embodiments the refractive index of the cryogenic liquid is within 5 of the refractive index of the objective lens. For example the refractive index of glass is about 1.4 a useful approximation for the refractive index of some objective lenses. The refractive index of liquid propane is about 1.3.

A cryogenic immersion liquid between the sample holder and the objective lens allows for the sample holder to be cylindrical without loss of resolution. The liquid significantly reduces image artifacts which would otherwise be present due to the curved interfaces and refractive index differences between the specimen and the objective lens in air.

Turning now to an automated cryogenic immersion microscope system is illustrated. The sample region is as described above with reference to where a sample holder is immersed in a reservoir of an approximately index matched cryogenic liquid and is positioned adjacent an objective lens . Light from light source is focused on a fiber optic light pipe that routes the light to a mirror . The mirror reflects the light to a condenser lens to illuminate the sample as described above with reference to . As is also described above with reference to an image acquisition system which may for example be used for fluorescence or confocal multiphoton microscopy acquires the images for display storage and or viewing.

In the embodiment of the mirror and condenser lens sit adjacent a rotatable platform but do not themselves rotate. A central shaft portion of the platform extends downward into a reservoir of cryogenic liquid such as liquid nitrogen to keep the platform at cryogenic temperature. It has also been found useful to cool the housing for the objective lens and the container for the liquid with a thermally conductive strap made of a material with good thermal conductivity such as copper or aluminum which attaches to the lens housing and extends into the cryogenic liquid reservoir . The central shaft may be coupled to a motor which controls the rotational orientation of the platform . The housing of the apparatus is preferably thermally insulating comprising for example styrofoam and or multi walled Dewar construction.

The microscope stage comprises x y z stages for positioning the sample relative to the imaging beam. The x y z stages are coupled to a harmonic rotation motor for rotating the sample. The rotation motor is coupled to a precision bearing that allows for precision transfer of rotational motion from the rotation motor to the sample. The precision bearing is connected to a tilt stage . The tilt stage comprises picomotors that allow for adjustment of the tilt stage . The tilt stage is coupled to a sample mount which is adapted to hold a sample carrier such as a capillary or a flat sample surface on which a sample can be placed. The angle of the tilt stage can be adjusted using picomotors such that when rotation motor rotates the sample carrier rotates about an axis through the center of sample carrier so that the sample carrier does not wobble excessively through the rotation. In some embodiments tilt stage may be any suitable commercially available optical component mounting stage such as is typically used for adjusting the tilt of lenses etc. The angle of tilt stage is controlled by precision motors as described above. In one embodiment picomotors from New Focus are used.

In one embodiment the sample carrier is a capillary as illustrated in . The capillary can be made by softening grass tubing and stretching the softened glass to form a thin capillary using conventional glass working techniques. The capillary can then be cut to a desired size. depicts a capillary positioned at the end of a glass tube . The glass tube has an upper or initial diameter . Capillary has diameter and length . In one embodiment upper diameter is approximately 1 millimeter. In one embodiment capillary diameter is approximately 10 microns. In one embodiment length is approximately 300 microns. In one embodiment the diameter is approximately equal to the diameter of cells that are to be imaged. Thus a linear array of cells can fill capillary for imaging. In one embodiment samples are loaded into the capillary by introducing them into the glass tube and then forcing the samples into capillary such as by centrifugation or increased pressure. In another embodiment samples are loaded into the capillary by applying a negative pressure to the glass tube and pulling the samples into the tube through the capillary tip . In one embodiment the capillary comprises quartz glass. In another embodiment the capillary is Pyrex glass.

In one embodiment the sample carrier is a substantially flat sample surface on which a sample can be placed. In one embodiment the flat sample carrier comprises a silicon nitride substrate upon which the sample is placed. In another embodiment the sample carrier is glass. It is useful to use a transparent material for the flat sample carrier.

Referring to the platform includes holes or other mounts for sample tube storage. The platform also holds a freezer comprising a reservoir of cryogenic liquid which can be the same as is used in the reservoir associated with the objective lens e.g. liquid propane as described above. To keep the propane or other cryogenic liquid cold the freezer reservoir may extend downward into the cryogenic liquid reservoir . In one arrangement to place samples into the apparatus the sample mount coupled to the x y z stage is removed and a sample carrier containing an unfrozen sample is placed in the mount . The mount is then re coupled to the x y z stage . The platform is rotated to position the freezer near to the sample carrier and the x y z stage lowers the sample carrier into the freezer . After freezing the sample carrier is raised and the platform is rotated to position a storage mount under the sample carrier . The x y z stage lowers the sample carrier into the storage mount to be held in a cool environment until transferred to the imaging position. The process can be repeated as desired to load as many sample carriers as there are storage mounts . During operation the x y z stage can be used to remove a sample carrier from a storage location and place the sample carrier into the cryogenic liquid reservoir for imaging as described above.

Referring now to in one embodiment of the invention the cryogenic optical microscope apparatus described above is combined with a cryogenic x ray tomography unit . A cryogenic x ray tomography system which utilizes a rotating capillary sample holder has been developed by the inventors some features of which have been described in Schneider Anal Bioanal Chem 376 558 561 2003 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Additional advantageous aspects of a suitable x ray tomography system are described in co pending U.S. Pat. application Ser. No. 11 911 960 filed Oct. 18 2007 entitled Cryotomography X ray Microscope Stage which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In one embodiment the cryogenic optical microscope described above is combined with an x ray microscope by using a common x y z stage which is configured to position a sample alternately in the cryogenic liquid reservoir in an optical illumination path and then neat to a micro zone plate in the beamline or x ray illumination path of the x ray tomography microscope . When using the x ray microscope the sample can be kept cold by being placed in a stream of He or Ngas cooled with liquid nitrogen as described in the patent application above. Combining optical microscopy with x ray tomography has the advantage that image features observed with the optical microscope can be correlated with image features produced with x ray tomography. Thus a much richer picture of the biological structures observed in cells can be obtained. The high spatial resolution and low sample temperature used in the cryogenic light microscope allow for a much enhanced photostability of conventional fluorescent probes on the order of 100 . This enables cell fluorescent measurements such as Fluorescent Resonance Energy Transfer FRET at much lower fluorescent probe concentrations which measurements can be superposed on high spatial resolution x ray images of unlabled cell components.

It will be understood by those of skill in the art that numerous and various modifications can be made without departing from the spirit of the present invention. Therefore it should be clearly understood that the forms of the present invention are illustrative only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

