---

title: Sideload vanes for fluid pump
abstract: A fluid pump assembly includes a rotatable component that can be rotated about an axis and a static vane assembly located adjacent to the rotatable component. The static vane assembly includes a circumferential surface axially spaced from the rotatable component, and one or more vanes extending from the circumferential surface toward the rotatable component. The one or more vanes are configured to produce a radial load on the rotatable component when the rotatable component is rotating about the axis and a fluid is present between the static vane assembly and the rotatable component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07670110&OS=07670110&RS=07670110
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 07670110
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060713
---
The present invention was made in part with government funding under NASA Contract No. NAS8 36801. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to vane assemblies suitable for use in fluid pumps and more particularly to static vane assemblies for producing radial loads on turbopump components.

Rocket engines can utilize turbopumps to deliver propellants to an injector assembly in the combustion chamber. Such turbopumps have rotors that rotate as the turbopump operates and impellers that rotate as part of the rotor to increase the pressure of propellants or propellant mixtures. It is desired to obtain a low steady synchronous vibration response during turbopump operation. However for a variety of reasons a particular turbopump may produce an undesired sub synchronous response. Sub synchronous vibration responses can be caused at least in part by insufficient radial loading on a given bearing set of the turbopump.

Undesired asynchronous vibration response issues could be addressed in a number of ways. However many potential solutions are overly complex insufficiently robust or are otherwise undesirable for instance resulting in an unsatisfactory turbopump performance loss. As one example the rotor bearings could be redesigned but redesigns of rotor bearings are difficult and complex. Moreover flow inlets and outlets create load vectors that could be optimized relative to undesired vibrations but optimal inlet and outlet flow paths may undesirably increase engine size and or mass and may provide optimal design windows i.e. tolerances on desired vibration characteristics that are too small to be practical.

A turbopump assembly according to the present invention includes a rotatable component that can be rotated about an axis and a static vane assembly located adjacent to the rotatable component. The static vane assembly includes a circumferential surface axially spaced from the rotatable component and one or more vanes extending from the circumferential surface toward the rotatable component. The one or more vanes are configured to produce a radial load on the rotatable component when the rotatable component is rotating about the axis and a fluid is present between the static vane assembly and the rotatable component.

The present invention provides an apparatus and method for reducing undesired vibration of components of a fluid pump. In particular the present invention provides advantages in producing radial loading on bearing supports for pump rotors which otherwise permit undesired vibrations in an unloaded condition. The present invention utilizes sideload vanes positioned adjacent to rotating members that work upon the fluid in the pump. The sideload vanes produce a non uniform circumferential pressure field in a fluid in the pump as fluid moves in a flowpath adjacent to the vanes. The non uniform circumferential pressure field in turn imparts radial loading to rotor bearings that otherwise would be substantially unloaded and prone to undesirable vibration issues.

A sideload portion of a first diffuser is located adjacent to the first impeller a sideload portion of a second diffuser also called the 1 2 diffuser is located adjacent to the second impeller and a sideload portion of a third diffuser also called the 2 3 diffuser is located adjacent to the third impeller . The diffusers are static components located at a forward or upstream side of the respective adjacent impellers to the left of the impellers as shown in . A portion of a secondary flowpath is defined in a gap between the sideload portions of the diffusers and the adjacent impellers for instance between the sideload portion of the second diffuser and the second impeller . The secondary flowpath corresponds to a fluid flow that is generally outside the primary flowpath that carries the majority of fluid through the turbopump . In a conventional prior art turbopump the secondary flowpaths between the sideload portions of each of the diffusers and the impellers would be circumferentially uniform a condition which would produce no net radial load on the rotor shaft or first bearing set .

The turbopump includes numerous other components not specifically identified herein. Those skilled in the art will understand the basic operation of turbopumps. Therefore further explanation here is unnecessary.

The sideload vane assembly is a static component that includes a central opening for the rotor shaft and flange at the perimeter of the assembly having bolt holes for mounting the assembly in the turbopump . The assembly can be made of a metallic material such as aluminum. A sideload wall is positioned radially between the central opening and the flange . The sideload wall extends circumferentially about the entire assembly that is the sideload wall has an angular sweep of 360 about the centerline CL. The sideload wall is radially positioned so as to align with one of the side of the diffusers or adjacent to one of the corresponding impellers or .

The sideload wall includes a substantially smooth wall portion and six pockets A F. The pockets A F form five vanes A E at the circumferentially spaced edges thereof. As shown in the vanes A E are located within a first angular region which has an angular sweep of 154 about the centerline CL between angles and . The vanes A E are substantially equally angularly spaced within the first angular region. The substantially smooth wall portion is located within a second angular region which has an angular sweep of 205 about the centerline CL between angles and . The first and second angular regions have a combined angular sweep of 360 that is together they extend circumferentially about the entire assembly . It should be noted that in alternative embodiments the number and arrangement of the vanes can vary. For example more or fewer than six pockets can be formed. Moreover the first angular region can have a greater or lesser angular sweep and the position of the first angular region i.e. the rotational position of the reference markers with respect to a pump mounting location can vary. Furthermore the vanes need not be equally angularly spaced.

In a portion of the sideload wall is shown including pockets B D and vanes C D. A number of reference dimensions are indicated in including a vane height H a vane width W and a pocket depth D. The dimensions H W and D can be adjusted for particular applications to provide desired performance characteristics including desired radial loading.

Each of the vanes A E has a substantially rectangular shape and the pockets A F and vanes A E can be formed by milling the sideload wall . Use of rectangular vanes simplifies manufacture while still providing sufficient structural integrity. In alternative embodiments the shape of the vanes can vary as desired.

In operation as fluid is being pumped through the turbopump the sideload vane assembly interacts with the fluid in the secondary flowpath i.e. in the gap between the sideload vane assembly and the adjacent second impeller . The vanes A E of the assembly act like asymmetric swirl brakes and generate a non uniform circumferential pressure field in fluid in the secondary flowpath. The non uniform circumferential pressure field imparts a moment on the adjacent second impeller and that moment produces a radial force component in the second impeller that in turn radially loads the rotor shaft and the first bearing set .

A vector Irepresents natural radial loading of the third impeller and a vector Trepresents natural radial loading of the turbine assembly . Vector Iis oriented at about 0 50 with respect to a given angular reference point not shown and vector Tis oriented at about 0 with respect to the reference point . The vectors Iand Tarise due to the rotation of and interaction with fluids by the third impeller and the turbine assembly and due to configurations of fluid inlets and outlets of the turbopump . Vectors Iand Testablish a preferred direction of radial loading for the turbopump based on the natural characteristics of the turbopump that is based on factors substantially independent from radial loading imparted by the sideload vane assembly . The vectors Iand Tgenerally have small magnitudes that alone do not provide significant stiffness to the first bearing set .

The sideload vane assembly is configured such that the first direction of radial loading imparted by assembly substantially aligns with the preferred direction of radial loading of the turbopump i.e. such that . Such alignment although not strictly necessary improves the effectiveness of the radial loading and reduces performance losses.

It should be noted that although reference markings are shown in primarily with respect to the second impeller similar parameters would exist for the other impellers where sideload vane assemblies were located adjacent to the other impellers .

The magnitude for the vector FBNL i.e. the net radial load on the first bearing set is given by the following equation 

The vector FBNL for the sideload vane assembly of is directed at an angle designated as which can be determined empirically. The angle generally lies within the first angular region of the vane assembly and is generally offset from the symmetry line of the first angular region i.e. angle in a direction opposite to the direction of rotation of the impellers and rotor shaft . The offset of angle from angle is due to the fluid dynamics within the pump.

The magnitude for the vector SBNL i.e. the net radial load on the second bearing set is given by the following equation 

The vector FBNL gives the anticipated radial loading on the first bearing set and the sideload vane assembly can be configured such that the anticipated radial loading provides desired stiffness to maintain engagement of the first bearing set e.g. to maintain engagement of the first bearing set with the housing A . Equations 1 and 2 and the free body diagram in help illustrate the relationship of the forces that produce radial loading on the first bearing set due to the non uniform circumferential pressure field created by the sideload vane assembly .

A bench test experiment was performed on an embodiment of the vane assembly like that described above. The turbopump was run under normal operating conditions pumping water. The sideload vane assembly had five vanes A E and six pockets A F where the vane length L was 3.429 cm 1.35 inches the vane width W was 0.635 cm 0.250 inches the pocket depth D was 0.1524 cm 0.060 inches . The vanes A E were equally circumferentially spaced within a first angular region having an angular sweep of about 154 .

The first angular region of the sideload vane assembly corresponds approximately to values of between and inclusive of as shown in the graph of . The second angular region of the sideload vane assembly corresponds roughly to values of between and exclusive of on the graph. The graph shows acute pressure rises that generally correspond to when the fluid passed each of the vanes A E in the first angular region with the pressure rise being greatest at locations further from the centerline CL. At the smallest radii nearest the centerline CL the effects of the vanes A E is less pronounced. However because of radial fluid movement during operation of the turbopump causing fluid to move away from the vanes A E the number of acute rises in fluid pressure did not strictly correspond to the number of vanes five . The angle of radial loading in the present example was approximately 60 with respect to the arbitrarily selected reference point shown on . can be calculated according to the following equation where P is the pressure r is a variable for the radial location and is the variable in the horizontal axis of 

The magnitude of FBNL i.e. the net radial load on the first bearing set was 185.519 kg 409 lbs. and that value was obtained by integrating the area under the plots of the graph of .

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For instance a sideload vane assembly according to the present invention can have a variety of vane and pocket configurations. Moreover a fluid pump can utilize one or more sideload vane assemblies according to the present invention in a variety of locations. In addition sideload vane assemblies according to the present invention can be used to reduce the net radial loads on components e.g. bearings of a fluid pump as desired by configuring the sideload vane assemblies to produce radial loads in opposition to existing radial loads.

