---

title: Biological markers predictive of anti-cancer response to insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor kinase inhibitors
abstract: The present invention provides diagnostic and prognostic methods for predicting the effectiveness of treatment of a cancer patient with an IGF-1R kinase inhibitor. Methods are provided for predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF-1R kinase inhibitor, comprising assessing whether the tumor cell has undergone an epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT), by determining the expression level of epithelial and/or mesenchymal biomarkers, wherein tumor cells that have undergone an EMT are substantially less sensitive to inhibition by IGF-1R kinase inhibitors. Improved methods for treating cancer patients with IGF-1R kinase inhibitors that incorporate the above methodology are also provided. Additionally, methods are provided for the identification of new biomarkers that are predictive of responsiveness of tumors to IGF-1R kinase inhibitors. Furthermore, methods for the identification of agents that restore the sensitivity of tumor cells that have undergone EMT to inhibition by IGF-1R kinase inhibitors are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08062838&OS=08062838&RS=08062838
owner: OSI Pharmaceuticals, LLC
number: 08062838
owner_city: Farmingdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060919
---
The present invention is directed to methods for diagnosing and treating cancer patients. In particular the present invention is directed to methods for determining which patients will most benefit from treatment with an insulin like growth factor 1 receptor IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

Cancer is a generic name for a wide range of cellular malignancies characterized by unregulated growth lack of differentiation and the ability to invade local tissues and metastasize. These neoplastic malignancies affect with various degrees of prevalence every tissue and organ in the body.

A multitude of therapeutic agents have been developed over the past few decades for the treatment of various types of cancer. The most commonly used types of anticancer agents include DNA alkylating agents e.g. cyclophosphamide ifosfamide antimetabolites e.g. methotrexate a folate antagonist and 5 fluorouracil a pyrimidine antagonist microtubule disrupters e.g. vincristine vinblastine paclitaxel DNA intercalators e.g. doxorubicin daunomycin cisplatin and hormone therapy e.g. tamoxifen flutamide .

IGF 1R is a transmembrane RTK that binds primarily to IGF 1 but also to IGF II and insulin with lower affinity. Binding of IGF 1 to its receptor results in receptor oligomerization activation of tyrosine kinase intermolecular receptor autophosphorylation and phosphorylation of cellular substrates major substrates are IRS1 and Shc . The ligand activated IGF 1R induces mitogenic activity in normal cells and plays an important role in abnormal growth. A major physiological role of the IGF 1 system is the promotion of normal growth and regeneration. Overexpressed IGF 1R type 1 insulin like growth factor receptor can initiate mitogenesis and promote ligand dependent neoplastic transformation. Furthermore IGF 1R plays an important role in the establishment and maintenance of the malignant phenotype. Unlike the epidermal growth factor EGF receptor no mutant oncogenic forms of the IGF 1R have been identified. However several oncogenes have been demonstrated to affect IGF 1 and IGF 1R expression. The correlation between a reduction of IGF 1R expression and resistance to transformation has been seen. Exposure of cells to the mRNA antisense to IGF 1R RNA prevents soft agar growth of several human tumor cell lines. IGF 1R abrogates progression into apoptosis both in vivo and in vitro. It has also been shown that a decrease in the level of IGF 1R below wild type levels causes apoptosis of tumor cells in vivo. The ability of IGF 1R disruption to cause apoptosis appears to be diminished in normal non tumorigenic cells.

The IGF b pathway in human tumor development has an important role. IGF 1R overexpression is frequently found in various tumors breast colon lung sarcoma and is often associated with an aggressive phenotype. High circulating IGF1 concentrations are strongly correlated with prostate lung and breast cancer risk. Furthermore IGF 1R is required for establishment and maintenance of the transformed phenotype in vitro and in vivo Baserga R. 1999 253 1 6 . The kinase activity of IGF 1R is essential for the transforming activity of several oncogenes EGFR PDGFR SV40 T antigen activated Ras Raf and v Src. The expression of IGF 1R in normal fibroblasts induces neoplastic phenotypes which can then form tumors in vivo. IGF 1R expression plays an important role in anchorage independent growth. IGF 1R has also been shown to protect cells from chemotherapy radiation and cytokine induced apoptosis. Conversely inhibition of endogenous IGF 1R by dominant negative IGF 1R triple helix formation or antisense expression vector has been shown to repress transforming activity in vitro and tumor growth in animal models.

It has been recognized that inhibitors of protein tyrosine kinases are useful as selective inhibitors of the growth of mammalian cancer cells. For example Gleevec also known as imatinib mesylate a 2 phenylpyrimidine tyrosine kinase inhibitor that inhibits the kinase activity of the BCR ABL fusion gene product has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of CML. The 4 anilinoquinazoline compound Tarceva erlotinib HCl has also been recently approved by the FDA and selectively inhibits EGF receptor kinase with high potency. The development for use as anti tumor agents of compounds that directly inhibit the kinase activity of IGF 1R as well as antibodies that reduce IGF 1R kinase activity by blocking IGF 1R activation or antisense oligonucleotides that block IGF 1R expression are areas of intense research effort e.g. see Larsson O. et al 2005 Brit. J. Cancer 92 2097 2101 Ibrahim Y. H. and Yee D. 2005 Clin. Cancer Res. 11 944s 950s Mitsiades C. S. et al. 2004 Cancer Cell 5 221 230 Camirand A. et al. 2005 Breast Cancer Research 7 R570 R579 DOI 10.1186 bcr1028 Camirand A. and Pollak M. 2004 Brit. J. Cancer 90 1825 1829 Garcia Echeverria C. et al. 2004 Cancer Cell 5 231 239 .

An anti neoplastic drug would ideally kill cancer cells selectively with a wide therapeutic index relative to its toxicity towards non malignant cells. It would also retain its efficacy against malignant cells even after prolonged exposure to the drug. Unfortunately none of the current chemotherapies possess such an ideal profile. Instead most possess very narrow therapeutic indexes. Furthermore cancerous cells exposed to slightly sub lethal concentrations of a chemotherapeutic agent will very often develop resistance to such an agent and quite often cross resistance to several other antineoplastic agents as well. Additionally for any given cancer type one frequently cannot predict which patient is likely to respond to a particular treatment even with newer gene targeted therapies such as protein tyrosine kinase inhibitors thus necessitating considerable trial and error often at considerable risk and discomfort to the patient in order to find the most effective therapy.

Thus there is a need for more efficacious treatment for neoplasia and other proliferative disorders and for more effective means for determining which tumors will respond to which treatment. Strategies for enhancing the therapeutic efficacy of existing drugs have involved changes in the schedule for their administration and also their use in combination with other anticancer or biochemical modulating agents. Combination therapy is well known as a method that can result in greater efficacy and diminished side effects relative to the use of the therapeutically relevant dose of each agent alone. In some cases the efficacy of the drug combination is additive the efficacy of the combination is approximately equal to the sum of the effects of each drug alone but in other cases the effect is synergistic the efficacy of the combination is greater than the sum of the effects of each drug given alone . Target specific therapeutic approaches are generally associated with reduced toxicity compared with conventional cytotoxic agents and therefore lend themselves to use in combination regimens.

Several groups have investigated potential biomarkers to predict a patient s response to protein tyrosine kinase inhibitors for example EGFR inhibitors see for example PCT publications WO 2004 063709 WO 2005 017493 WO 2004 111273 and WO 2004 071572 and US published patent applications US 2005 0019785 and US 2004 0132097 . However no diagnostic or prognostic tests have yet emerged that can guide practicing physicians in the treatment of their patients with such inhibitors.

Thus there remains a critical need for improved methods for determining the best mode of treatment for any given cancer patient. The present invention provides methods for determining which tumors will respond most effectively to treatment with IGF 1R kinase inhibitors based on whether the tumor cells have undergone an epithelial to mesenchymal transition EMT Thiery J. P. 2002 Nat. Rev. Cancer 2 442 454 Savagner P. 2001 Bioessays 23 912 923 Kang Y. and Massague J. 2004 Cell 118 277 279 Julien Grille S. et al. Cancer Research 63 2172 2178 Bates R. C. et al. 2003 Current Biology 13 1721 1727 Lu Z. et al. 2003 Cancer Cell. 4 6 499 515 and for the incorpora of such determinations into more effective treatment regimens for cancer patients whether such inhibitors are used as single agents or combined with other anti cancer agents.

The present invention provides diagnostic and prognostic methods for predicting the effectiveness of treatment of a cancer patient with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. Based on the surprising discovery that the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors is dependent on whether such tumor cells have undergone an EMT methods have been devised for determining epithelial and or mesenchymal biomarkers to predict the sensitivity of tumor cells to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors.

Accordingly the present invention provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by a tumor cell and predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein high expression levels of tumor cell epithelial biomarkers correlate with high sensitivity to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors.

The present invention also provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by a tumor cell and predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein high expression levels of tumor cell mesenchymal biomarkers correlate with low sensitivity to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors.

Improved methods for treating cancer patients with IGF 1R kinase inhibitors that incorporate the above methodology are also provided. Thus the present invention further provides a method for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising the steps of diagnosing a patient s likely responsiveness to an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor by assessing whether the tumor cells have undergone an epithelial mesenchymal transition and administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

Additionally methods are provided for the identification of new epithelial or mesenchymal biomarkers that are predictive of responsiveness of tumors to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors.

Thus for example the present invention further provides a method of identifying an epithelial biomarker that is diagnostic for more effective treatment of a neoplastic condition with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising measuring the level of a candidate epithelial biomarker in neoplastic cell containing samples from patients with a neoplastic condition and identifying a correlation between the level of said candidate epithelial biomarker in the sample from the patient with the effectiveness of treatment of the neoplastic condition with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein a correlation of high levels of the epithelial biomarker with more effective treatment of the neoplastic condition with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor indicates that said epithelial biomarker is diagnostic for more effective treatment of the neoplastic condition with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

The present invention further provides a method of identifying a mesenchymal biomarker that is diagnostic for less effective treatment of a neoplastic condition with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising a measuring the level of a candidate mesenchymal biomarker in neoplastic cell containing samples from patients with a neoplastic condition and b identifying a correlation between the level of said candidate mesenchymal biomarker in the sample from the patient with the effectiveness of treatment of the neoplastic condition with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein a correlation of high levels of the mesenchymal biomarker with less effective treatment of the neoplastic condition with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor indicates that said mesenchymal biomarker is diagnostic for less effective treatment of the neoplastic condition with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

Furthermore methods for the identification of agents that restore the sensitivity of tumor cells that have undergone EMT to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors are also provided. Thus for example the present invention provides a method for the identification of an agent that enhances sensitivity of the growth of a tumor cell to an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor said tumor cell having being characterized as one that has previously undergone an epithelial mesenchymal transition comprising contacting a sample of said tumor cells with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor contacting an identical sample of said tumor cells with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor in the presence of a test agent comparing the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor mediated growth inhibition in the presence and absence of the test agent and determining whether the test agent is an agent that enhances sensitivity of the growth of the tumor cell to an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

The term cancer in an animal refers to the presence of cells possessing characteristics typical of cancer causing cells such as uncontrolled proliferation immortality metastatic potential rapid growth and proliferation rate and certain characteristic morphological features. Often cancer cells will be in the form of a tumor but such cells may exist alone within an animal or may circulate in the blood stream as independent cells such as leukemic cells.

 Abnormal cell growth as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to cell growth that is independent of normal regulatory mechanisms e.g. loss of contact inhibition . This includes the abnormal growth of 1 tumor cells tumors that proliferate by expressing a mutated tyrosine kinase or overexpression of a receptor tyrosine kinase 2 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant tyrosine kinase activation occurs 4 any tumors that proliferate by receptor tyrosine kinases 5 any tumors that proliferate by aberrant serine threonine kinase activation and 6 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant serine threonine kinase activation occurs.

The term treating as used herein unless otherwise indicated means reversing alleviating inhibiting the progress of or preventing either partially or completely the growth of tumors tumor metastases or other cancer causing or neoplastic cells in a patient. The term treatment as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to the act of treating.

The phrase a method of treating or its equivalent when applied to for example cancer refers to a procedure or course of action that is designed to reduce or eliminate the number of cancer cells in an animal or to alleviate the symptoms of a cancer. A method of treating cancer or another proliferative disorder does not necessarily mean that the cancer cells or other disorder will in fact be eliminated that the number of cells or disorder will in fact be reduced or that the symptoms of a cancer or other disorder will in fact be alleviated. Often a method of treating cancer will be performed even with a low likelihood of success but which given the medical history and estimated survival expectancy of an animal is nevertheless deemed an overall beneficial course of action.

The term therapeutically effective agent means a composition that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue system animal or human that is being sought by the researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician.

The term therapeutically effective amount or effective amount means the amount of the subject compound or combination that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue system animal or human that is being sought by the researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician.

The data presented in the Examples herein below demonstrate that tumor cells such as NSCLC cells grown either in cell culture or in vivo show a range of sensitivities to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors dependent on whether they have undergone an epithelial to mesenchymal transition EMT . Prior to EMT tumor cells are very sensitive to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors such as Compound 66 a potent approx. 50 nM IC and IGF 1R selective low molecular weight IGF 1R kinase inhibitor whereas tumor cells which have undergone an EMT are substantially less sensitive to inhibition by such compounds. The data indicates that the EMT may be a general biological switch that determines the level of sensitivity of tumors to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors. It is demonstrated that the level of sensitivity of tumors to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors can be assessed by determining the level of biomarkers expressed by a tumor cell that are characteristic for cells either prior to or subsequent to an EMT event. For example high levels of tumor cell expression of epithelial biomarkers such as E cadherin indicative of a cell that has not yet undergone an EMT correlate with high sensitivity to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors. Conversely high levels of tumor cell expression of mesenchymal biomarkers such as vimentin or fibronectin indicative of a cell that has undergone an EMT correlate with low sensitivity to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors. Additionally morphometric cell analysis can be used to provide information on epithelial or mesenchymal status of tumor cells and their subsequent sensitivity to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors. Thus these observations can form the basis of valuable new diagnostic methods for predicting the effects of IGF 1R kinase inhibitors on tumor growth and give oncologists an additional tool to assist them in choosing the most appropriate treatment for their patients.

Accordingly the present invention provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by a tumor cell and predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein high expression levels of tumor cell epithelial biomarkers correlate with high sensitivity to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors. Preferred examples of epithelial biomarkers include E cadherin and Brk i.e. PTK 6 see Table 1 . Additional examples of epithelial biomarkers that can be utilized in the method of this invention include catenin i.e. junction plakoglobin catenin i.e. 1 2 or 3 catenin keratin 8 and keratin 18 see Table 1 .

The present invention also provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by a tumor cell and predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein high expression levels of tumor cell mesenchymal biomarkers correlate with low sensitivity to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors. Preferred examples of mesenchymal biomarkers include vimentin and fibronectin see Table 1 . Additional examples of mesenchymal biomarkers that can be utilized in the method of this invention include fibrillin 1 fibrillin 2 collagen alpha 2 IV collagen alpha 2 V LOXL1 nidogen C11orf9 tenascin N cadherin and embryonal EDB fibronectin see Table 1 .

In the practice of this invention with preferred epithelial biomarkers the level of expression in tumor cells that are sensitive to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors will generally be at such a high level that the biomarker will be very readily detectable using for example a specific anti biomarker antibody for detection. With preferred epithelial biomarkers the level of expression in tumor cells that are relatively insensitive to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors will generally be at such a low level that the biomarker will be barely detectable if at all using similar procedures e.g. in the data presented in the Examples herein below compare E cadherin levels between sensitive and relatively insensitive tumor cells in .

However for other less preferred epithelial biomarkers the level of biomarker expression in tumor cells that are relatively insensitive to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors may be readily detectable but nevertheless will be at a substantially lower level of expression than in tumor cells that are sensitive to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors e.g. in the data presented in the Examples herein below compare catenin levels for the relatively insensitive tumor cell SW1573 with the sensitive tumor cells H441 H358 and H292 in .

Similarly in the practice of this invention with preferred mesenchymal biomarkers the level of expression in tumor cells that are relatively insensitive to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors will generally be at such a high level that the biomarker will be very readily detectable using for example a specific anti biomarker antibody for detection. With preferred mesenchymal biomarkers the level of expression in tumor cells that are relatively sensitive to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors will generally be at such a low level that the biomarker will be barely detectable if at all using similar procedures e.g. in the data presented in the Examples herein below compare fibronectin or vimentin levels between sensitive and relatively insensitive tumor cells in .

Also for other less preferred mesenchymal biomarkers the level of biomarker expression in tumor cells that are relatively sensitive to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors may be readily detectable but nevertheless will be at a substantially lower level of expression than in tumor cells that are relatively insensitive to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors.

For any given epithelial or mesenchymal biomarker the range of expression level between tumor cells that are relatively insensitive to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors and those that are sensitive can readily be assessed by one of skill in the art for example by testing on a panel of tumor cells as described herein e.g. or by testing in tumor biopsies from patients whose tumors display a range of sensitivities to an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor e.g. Compound 66 .

In the context of this invention for a relatively small percentage of tumor cells that are relatively insensitive to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors the methods described above for predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of an epithelial or mesenchymal biomarker expressed by a tumor cell in circumstances where only a single biomarker level is assessed may falsely predict that tumor cell growth is sensitive to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. For example in the data presented in the Examples herein below the levels of the epithelial biomarkers catenin and catenin in H460 tumor cells or the mesenchymal biomarker vimentin in H460 cells falsely predict high sensitivity to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors see . Thus based on such false predictions a physician may be lead to treat a small number of patients with IGF 1R kinase inhibitors and the tumor may not be sensitive to the inhibitor. However for the vast majority of tumor cells e.g. at least 90 from the data presented in the Examples herein below assessment of a single biomarker expression level would be expected to provide an accurate prediction of level of sensitivity to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors.

Furthermore most importantly in the context of this invention no tumor cells that are sensitive to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors have been found that when tested by the above methods where only a single biomarker level is assessed give a false prediction that tumor cell growth will be insensitive to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. Thus utilizing the testing methods described herein should never lead a physician to withhold treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor in cases where the patient may benefit from such treatment.

In addition one of skill in the medical arts particularly pertaining to the application of diagnostic tests and treatment with therapeutics will recognize that biological systems are somewhat variable and not always entirely predictable and thus many good diagnostic tests or therapeutics are occasionally ineffective. Thus it is ultimately up to the judgement of the attending physician to determine the most appropriate course of treatment for an individual patient based upon test results patient condition and history and his own experience. There may even be occasions for example when a physician will choose to treat a patient with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor even when a tumor is not predicted to be particularly sensitive to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors based on data from diagnostic tests or from other criteria particularly if all or most of the other obvious treatment options have failed or if some synergy is anticipated when given with another treatment. The fact that the IGF 1R kinase inhibitors as a class of compounds are relatively well tolerated compared to many other anti cancer compounds such as more traditional chemotherapy or cytotoxic agents used in the treatment of cancer makes this a more viable option.

Preferred examples of suitable epithelial biomarkers for use in this invention such as E cadherin do not lead to any false predictions when used in the methods described above where only a single biomarker level is assessed .

Furthermore this invention also provides additional methods wherein simultaneous assessment of the expression level in tumor cells of more than one biomarker level is utilized. In preferred embodiments of these methods described below there is no level of false prediction as is the case for some of the methods described above where a single biomarker expression level is assessed.

Accordingly the present invention provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of one or more or a panel of epithelial biomarkers expressed by a tumor cell and predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein simultaneous high expression levels of all of the assessed tumor cell epithelial biomarkers correlates with high sensitivity to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors. In one preferred embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarkers comprise E cadherin and Brk wherein simultaneous high expression level of the two tumor cell epithelial biomarkers correlates with high sensitivity to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. In another preferred embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarkers comprise E cadherin and catenin wherein simultaneous high expression level of the two tumor cell epithelial biomarkers correlates with high sensitivity to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. Note that in the two latter preferred embodiments a high expression level of both biomarkers is required to indicate high sensitivity.

The present invention also provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of one or more or a panel of mesenchymal biomarkers expressed by a tumor cell and predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein simultaneous low or undetectable expression levels of all of the assessed tumor cell mesenchymal biomarkers correlates with high sensitivity to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors. In one preferred embodiment of this method the mesenchymal biomarkers comprise vimentin and fibronectin wherein simultaneous low or undetectable expression level of the two tumor cell mesenchymal biomarkers correlates with high sensitivity to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. Note that in the latter preferred embodiment a low or undetectable expression of both biomarkers is required to indicate high sensitivity.

The present invention also provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by a tumor cell assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by a tumor cell and predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein a high ratio of epithelial to mesenchymal biomarker expression levels correlates with high sensitivity to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors. In one preferred embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarker comprises E cadherin and the mesenchymal biomarker comprises fibronectin. In another preferred embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarker comprises Brk and the mesenchymal biomarker comprises fibronectin. In another preferred embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarker comprises E cadherin and the mesenchymal biomarker comprises vimentin. In another preferred embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarker comprises catenin and the mesenchymal biomarker comprises fibronectin.

The present invention also provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of one or more or a panel of epithelial biomarkers expressed by cells of the tumor and predicting the sensitivity of tumor growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein simultaneous high expression levels of all of the assessed tumor cell epithelial biomarkers correlates with high sensitivity to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors. In one preferred embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarkers comprise E cadherin and Brk wherein simultaneous high expression level of the two tumor cell epithelial biomarkers correlates with high sensitivity to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. In another preferred embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarkers comprise E cadherin and catenin wherein simultaneous high expression level of the two tumor cell epithelial biomarkers correlates with high sensitivity to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. Note that in the two latter preferred embodiments a high expression level of both biomarkers is required to indicate high sensitivity.

The present invention also provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of one or more or a panel of mesenchymal biomarkers expressed by cells of the tumor and predicting the sensitivity of tumor growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein simultaneous low or undetectable expression levels of all of the assessed tumor cell mesenchymal biomarkers correlates with high sensitivity to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors. In one preferred embodiment of this method the mesenchymal biomarkers comprise vimentin and fibronectin wherein simultaneous low or undetectable expression level of the two tumor cell mesenchymal biomarkers correlates with high sensitivity to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. Note that in the latter preferred embodiment a low or undetectable expression of both biomarkers is required to indicate high sensitivity.

The present invention also provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by cells of the tumor assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by cells of the tumor and predicting the sensitivity of tumor growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein a high ratio of epithelial to mesenchymal biomarker expression levels correlates with high sensitivity to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors. In one preferred embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarker comprises E cadherin and the mesenchymal biomarker comprises fibronectin. In another preferred embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarker comprises Brk and the mesenchymal biomarker comprises fibronectin. In another preferred embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarker comprises E cadherin and the mesenchymal biomarker comprises vimentin. In another preferred embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarker comprises catenin and the mesenchymal biomarker comprises fibronectin.

The present invention also provides a method of predicting whether a cancer patient is afflicted with a tumor that will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of one or more or a panel of epithelial biomarkers expressed by cells of the tumor and predicting if the tumor will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein simultaneous high expression levels of all of the tumor cell epithelial biomarkers correlates with a tumor that will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. In one preferred embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarkers comprise E cadherin and Brk wherein simultaneous high expression level of the two tumor cell epithelial biomarkers correlates with a tumor that will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. In another preferred embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarkers comprise E cadherin and catenin wherein simultaneous high expression level of the two tumor cell epithelial biomarkers correlates with a tumor that will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. Note that in the two latter preferred embodiments a high expression level of both biomarkers is required to indicate a tumor that will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

The present invention also provides a method of predicting whether a cancer patient is afflicted with a tumor that will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of one or more or a panel of mesenchymal biomarkers expressed by cells of the tumor and predicting if the tumor will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein simultaneous low or undetectable expression levels of all of the tumor cell mesenchymal biomarkers correlates with a tumor that will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. In one preferred embodiment of this method the mesenchymal biomarkers comprise vimentin and fibronectin wherein simultaneous low or undetectable expression level of the two tumor cell mesenchymal biomarkers correlates with a tumor that will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. Note that in the latter preferred embodiment a low or undetectable expression of both biomarkers is required to indicate a tumor that will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

The present invention also provides a method of predicting whether a cancer patient is afflicted with a tumor that will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by cells of the tumor assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by cells of the tumor and predicting if the tumor will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein a high ratio of epithelial to mesenchymal biomarker expression levels correlates with a tumor that will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. In one preferred embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarker comprises E cadherin and the mesenchymal biomarker comprises fibronectin. In another preferred embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarker comprises Brk and the mesenchymal biomarker comprises fibronectin. In another preferred embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarker comprises E cadherin and the mesenchymal biomarker comprises vimentin. In another preferred embodiment of this method the epithelial biomarker comprises catenin and the mesenchymal biomarker comprises fibronectin.

In the context of the methods of this invention biomarkers expressed by a tumor cell can include molecular and cellular markers that indicate the transition state of the tumor cell. In a preferred embodiment the biomarker is an individual marker protein or its encoding mRNA characteristic of the particular transition state of the tumor i.e. a tumor exhibiting epithelial or mesenchymal characteristics. In an alternative embodiment in certain circumstances the biomarker may be a characteristic morphological pattern produced in the tumor cell by cellular macromolecules that is characteristic of either an epithelial or mesenchymal condition. Thus morphometric cell analysis can be used to provide information on epithelial or mesenchymal status of tumor cells and their subsequent sensitivity to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors.

Table 1 lists the genes coding for examples of molecular biomarkers that can be used in the practice of the methods of the invention described herein. The molecular biomarkers can include any product expressed by these genes including variants thereof e.g. expressed mRNA or protein splice variants co and post translationally modified proteins polymorphic variants etc. In one embodiment the biomarker is the embryonal EDB fibronectin a splice variant expressed by the fibronectin 1 gene Kilian O. et al. 2004 Bone 35 6 1334 1345 . A possible advantage of determining this fetal form of fibronectin is that one could readily distinguish mesenchymal like tumors from surrounding stromal tissue. In an additional embodiment the biomarker can be an animal homologue of the human gene product e.g. from dog mouse rat rabbit cat monkey ape etc. .

In the methods described herein the tumor cell will typically be from a patient diagnosed with cancer a precancerous condition or another form of abnormal cell growth and in need of treatment. The cancer may be lung cancer e.g. non small cell lung cancer NSCLC pancreatic cancer head and neck cancer gastric cancer breast cancer colon cancer ovarian cancer or any of a variety of other cancers described herein below. The cancer is preferably one known to be potentially treatable with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

In the methods of this invention biomarker expression level can be assessed relative to a control molecule whose expression level remains constant throughout EMT or when comparing tumor cells expressing either epithelial or mesenchymal transition states as indicated by molecular biomarkers e.g. a housekeeping gene such as GAPDH actin tubulin or the like . Biomarker expression level can also be assessed relative to the other type of tumor cell biomarker i.e. epithelial compared to mesenchymal or to the biomarker level in non tumor cells of the same tissue or another cell or tissue source used as an assay reference.

In the methods of this invention the level of an epithelial or mesenchymal biomarker expressed by a tumor cell can be assessed by using any of the standard bioassay procedures known in the art for determination of the level of expression of a gene including for example ELISA RIA immunopreciptation immunoblotting immunofluorescence microscopy RT PCR in situ hybridization cDNA microarray or the like as described in more detail below.

In the methods of this invention the expression level of a tumor cell epithelial or mesenchymal biomarker is preferably assessed by assaying a tumor biopsy. However in an alternative embodiment expression level of the tumor cell biomarker can be assessed in bodily fluids or excretions containing detectable levels of biomarkers originating from the tumor or tumor cells. Bodily fluids or excretions useful in the present invention include blood urine saliva stool pleural fluid lymphatic fluid sputum ascites prostatic fluid cerebrospinal fluid CSF or any other bodily secretion or derivative thereof. By blood it is meant to include whole blood plasma serum or any derivative of blood. Assessment of tumor epithelial or mesenchymal biomarkers in such bodily fluids or excretions can sometimes be preferred in circumstances where an invasive sampling method is inappropriate or inconvenient.

In the methods of this invention the tumor cell can be a lung cancer tumor cell e.g. non small cell lung cancer NSCLC a pancreatic cancer tumor cell a breast cancer tumor cell a head and neck cancer tumor cell a gastric cancer tumor cell a colon cancer tumor cell an ovarian cancer tumor cell or a tumor cell from any of a variety of other cancers as described herein below. The tumor cell is preferably of a type known to or expected to express IGF 1R kinase as do all tumor cells from solid tumors. The IGF 1R kinase can be wild type or a mutant form.

In the methods of this invention the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor can be any IGF 1R kinase inhibitor as described herein below including pharmacologically acceptable salts or polymorphs thereof.

The present invention provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by cells of the tumor and predicting the sensitivity of tumor growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein high expression levels of tumor cell epithelial biomarkers correlate with high sensitivity of tumor growth to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors.

The present invention provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by cells of the tumor and predicting the sensitivity of tumor growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein high expression levels of tumor cell mesenchymal biomarkers correlate with low sensitivity of tumor growth to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors.

The present invention provides a method of predicting whether a cancer patient is afflicted with a tumor that will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of an epithelial biomarker expressed by cells of the tumor and predicting if the tumor will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein high expression levels of tumor cell epithelial biomarkers correlate with a tumor that will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

In the methods of this invention the tumor can be a lung cancer tumor e.g. non small cell lung cancer NSCLC a pancreatic cancer tumor a breast cancer tumor a head and neck cancer tumor a gastric cancer tumor a colon cancer tumor an ovarian cancer tumor or a tumor from any of a variety of other cancers as described herein below. The tumor is preferably of a type whose cells are known to or expected to express IGF 1R kinase as do all solid tumors. The IGF 1R kinase can be wild type or a mutant form.

The present invention provides a method of predicting whether a cancer patient is afflicted with a tumor that will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising assessing the level of a mesenchymal biomarker expressed by cells of the tumor and predicting if the tumor will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein high expression levels of tumor cell mesenchymal biomarkers correlate with a tumor that will respond less effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

The present invention provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising determining the tumor cell level of at least one epithelial biomarker polypeptide determining the tumor cell level of at least one control polypeptide comparing the tumor cell level of at least one epithelial biomarker polypeptide to the tumor cell level of at least one control polypeptide wherein a high ratio of tumor cell biomarker polypeptide to tumor cell control polypeptide indicates a high predicted sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. For this method examples of useful epithelial biomarker polypeptides include E cadherin catenin keratin 8 keratin 18 and Brk.

The present invention provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising determining the tumor cell level of at least one epithelial biomarker polynucleotide that encodes an polypeptide determining the tumor cell level of at least one control polynucleotide comparing the tumor cell level of at least one epithelial biomarker polynucleotide that encodes a polypeptide to the tumor cell level of at least one control polynucleotide wherein a high ratio of tumor cell biomarker polynucleotide to tumor cell control polynucleotide indicates a high predicted sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. For this method examples of polypeptides encoded by the epithelial biomarker polynucleotide include E cadherin catenin keratin 8 keratin 18 and Brk.

The present invention provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising determining the tumor cell level of at least one mesenchymal biomarker polypeptide determining the tumor cell level of at least one control polypeptide comparing the tumor cell level of at least one mesenchymal biomarker polypeptide to the tumor cell level of at least one control polypeptide wherein a low ratio of tumor cell biomarker polypeptide to tumor cell control polypeptide indicates a high predicted sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. For this method examples of useful mesenchymal biomarker polypeptides include vimentin and fibronectin.

The present invention provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising determining the tumor cell level of at least one mesenchymal biomarker polynucleotide that encodes an polypeptide determining the tumor cell level of at least one control polynucleotide comparing the tumor cell level of at least one mesenchymal biomarker polynucleotide that encodes an polypeptide to the tumor cell level of at least one control polynucleotide wherein a low ratio of tumor cell biomarker polynucleotide to tumor cell control polynucleotide indicates a high predicted sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. For this method examples of useful polypeptides encoded by the biomarker polynucleotide include vimentin and fibronectin.

The present invention provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising determining the tumor cell level of at least one epithelial biomarker polypeptide determining a non tumor cell level of at least one epithelial biomarker polypeptide comparing the tumor cell level of at least one epithelial biomarker polypeptide to the non tumor cell level of at least one epithelial biomarker polypeptide wherein a high ratio of tumor cell biomarker polypeptide to non tumor cell biomarker polypeptide indicates a high predicted sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. For this method examples of useful epithelial biomarker polypeptide include E cadherin catenin keratin 8 keratin 18 and Brk.

The present invention provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising determining the tumor cell level of at least one epithelial biomarker polynucleotide that encodes an polypeptide determining a non tumor cell level of at least one epithelial biomarker polynucleotide that encodes an polypeptide comparing the tumor cell level of at least one epithelial biomarker polynucleotide that encodes an polypeptide to the non tumor cell level of at least one epithelial biomarker polynucleotide that encodes an polypeptide wherein a high ratio of tumor cell biomarker polynucleotide to non tumor cell biomarker polynucleotide indicates a high predicted sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. For this method examples of useful polypeptides encoded by the epithelial biomarker polynucleotide include E cadherin catenin keratin 8 keratin 18 and Brk.

The present invention provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising determining the tumor cell level of at least one mesenchymal biomarker polypeptide determining a non tumor cell level of at least one mesenchymal biomarker polypeptide comparing the tumor cell level of at least one mesenchymal biomarker polypeptide to the non tumor cell level of at least one mesenchymal biomarker polypeptide wherein a low ratio of tumor cell biomarker polypeptide to non tumor cell biomarker polypeptide indicates a high predicted sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. For this method examples of useful mesenchymal biomarker polypeptides include vimentin and fibronectin.

The present invention provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising determining the tumor cell level of at least one mesenchymal biomarker polynucleotide that encodes an polypeptide determining a non tumor cell level of at least one mesenchymal biomarker polynucleotide that encodes an polypeptide comparing the tumor cell level of at least one mesenchymal biomarker polynucleotide that encodes an polypeptide to the non tumor cell level of at least one mesenchymal biomarker polynucleotide that encodes an polypeptide wherein a low ratio of tumor cell biomarker polynucleotide to non tumor cell biomarker polynucleotide indicates a high predicted sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. For this method examples of useful polypeptides encoded by the biomarker polynucleotide include vimentin and fibronectin.

The present invention provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising determining the tumor cell level of at least one epithelial biomarker polypeptide determining the tumor cell level of at least one mesenchymal biomarker polypeptide comparing the level of at least one epithelial biomarker polypeptide to the level of at least one mesenchymal biomarker polypeptide wherein a high ratio of epithelial biomarker polypeptide to mesenchymal biomarker polypeptide indicates a high predicted sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. For this method examples of useful epithelial biomarker polypeptides include E cadherin catenin keratin 8 keratin 18 and Brk. For this method examples of useful mesenchymal biomarker polypeptides include vimentin and fibronectin.

The present invention provides a method of predicting the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising determining the tumor cell level of at least one epithelial biomarker polynucleotide that encodes a polypeptide determining the tumor cell level of at least one mesenchymal biomarker polynucleotide that encodes a polypeptide c comparing the level of at least one epithelial biomarker polynucleotide to the level of at least one mesenchymal biomarker polynucleotide wherein a high ratio of epithelial biomarker polynucleotide to mesenchymal biomarker polynucleotide indicates a predicted high sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. For this method examples of useful polypeptides encoded by the epithelial biomarker polynucleotide include E cadherin catenin keratin 8 keratin 18 and Brk. For this method examples of useful polypeptides encoded by the mesenchymal biomarker polynucleotide include vimentin and fibronectin.

The present invention provides a method of assessing whether a cancer patient is afflicted with a cancer that will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor the method comprising comparing the level of expression of a mesenchymal biomarker in a patient sample and the normal level of expression of the biomarker in a control non cancer sample wherein a significant increase in the level of expression of the mesenchymal biomarker in the patient sample over the normal level is an indication that the patient is afflicted with a cancer which is less likely to respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. For this method examples of useful mesenchymal biomarkers include vimentin and fibronectin and nucleic acids encoding for these proteins.

The present invention provides a method of assessing whether a cancer patient is afflicted with a cancer that will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor the method comprising comparing the level of expression of an epithelial biomarker in a patient sample and the normal level of expression of the biomarker in a control non cancer sample wherein a significant decrease in the level of expression of the epithelial biomarker in the patient sample over the normal level is an indication that the patient is afflicted with a cancer which is less likely to respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. For this method examples of useful epithelial biomarkers include E cadherin catenin keratin 8 keratin 18 and Brk and nucleic acids encoding for these proteins.

The present invention provides a method of assessing whether a cancer patient is afflicted with a cancer that will respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor the method comprising comparing the level of expression of an epithelial biomarker in a patient sample and the level of expression of a mesenchymal biomarker in a patient sample wherein a high ratio of the level of expression of the epithelial biomarker to the level of expression of the mesenchymal biomarker is an indication that the patient is afflicted with a cancer which is likely to respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. For this method examples of useful epithelial biomarkers include E cadherin catenin keratin 8 keratin 18 and Brk and nucleic acids encoding for these proteins. For this method examples of useful mesenchymal biomarkers include vimentin and fibronectin and nucleic acids encoding for these proteins.

In any of the above methods referring to a patient sample an example of such a sample can be a tumor biopsy.

The present invention provides a method of determining whether in a human subject a tumor will be responsive to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising a collecting a sample of a bodily substance containing human nucleic acid or protein said nucleic acid or protein having originated from cells of the human subject b determining quantitatively or semi quantitatively in the sample a level of expression for one or more epithelial cell biomarker proteins or one or more epithelial cell biomarker protein specific mRNAs and c comparing the expression level in b to the level of biomarker expression in a normal control or to the level of a control polypeptide or nucleic acid in the sample wherein reduced expression of one or more epithelial cell biomarker proteins or one or more epithelial cell biomarker protein specific mRNAs with respect to the control level indicates the presence in the human subject of a tumor which is less likely to respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

The present invention provides a method of determining whether in a human subject a tumor will be responsive to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising a collecting a sample of a bodily substance containing human nucleic acid or protein said nucleic acid or protein having originated from cells of the human subject b determining quantitatively or semi quantitatively in the sample a level of expression for one or more mesenchymal cell biomarker proteins or one or more mesenchymal cell biomarker protein specific mRNAs and c comparing the expression level in b to the level of biomarker expression in a normal control or to the level of a control polypeptide or nucleic acid in the sample wherein increased expression of one or more mesenchymal cell biomarker proteins or one or more mesenchymal cell biomarker protein specific mRNAs with respect to the control level indicates the presence in the human subject of a tumor which is less likely to respond effectively to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

The present invention provides a method of determining the likelihood that a patient with a tumor will show relatively long survival benefit from therapy with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising determining the level of one or more epithelial biomarkers in the cells of the tumor comparing said level with the level of epithelial biomarker expression in a non tumor control or to the level of a control polypeptide or nucleic acid in the tumor sample and determining whether the cells of the tumor contain a relatively high level of one or more epithelial biomarkers a high level being indicative that a patient with a tumor will show relatively long survival benefit from therapy with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

The present invention provides a method of determining the likelihood that a patient with a tumor will show relatively long survival benefit from therapy with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising determining the level of one or more mesenchymal biomarkers in the cells of the tumor comparing said level with the level of mesenchymal biomarker expression in a non tumor control or to the level of a control polypeptide or nucleic acid in the tumor sample and determining whether the cells of the tumor contain a relatively low level of one or more mesenchymal biomarkers a low level being indicative that a patient with a tumor will show relatively long survival benefit from therapy with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

The present invention provides a method for determining for a patient with a tumor the likelihood that said patient will show relatively long survival benefit from therapy with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising determining the level of one or more epithelial biomarkers in the cells of the tumor comparing said level with the level of epithelial biomarker expression in a non tumor control or to the level of a control polypeptide or nucleic acid in the tumor sample and determining whether the cells of the tumor contain a relatively high level of one or more epithelial biomarkers determining the level of one or more mesenchymal biomarkers in the cells of the tumor comparing said level with the level of mesenchymal biomarker expression in a non tumor control or to the level of a control polypeptide or nucleic acid in the tumor sample and determining whether the cells of the tumor contain a relatively low level of one or more mesenchymal biomarkers wherein a high level of one or more epithelial biomarkers and a low level of one or more mesenchymal biomarkers is indicative that a patient with a tumor will show relatively long survival benefit from therapy with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

The present invention provides a method of determining a prognosis for survival for a patient with a neoplastic condition in response to therapy with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising measuring the level of an epithelial biomarker associated with neoplastic cells and comparing said level of epithelial biomarker to a non neoplastic epithelial biomarker reference level or to the level of a control polypeptide or nucleic acid associated with the neoplastic cells wherein a decreased level of epithelial biomarker associated with the neoplastic cells correlates with decreased survival of said patient.

The present invention provides a method of determining a prognosis for survival for a patient with a neoplastic condition in response to therapy with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising measuring the level of an mesenchymal biomarker associated with neoplastic cells and comparing said level of mesenchymal biomarker to a non neoplastic mesenchymal biomarker reference level or to the level of a control polypeptide or nucleic acid associated with the neoplastic cells wherein an increased level of mesenchymal biomarker associated with the neoplastic cells correlates with decreased survival of said patient.

For assessment of tumor cell epithelial or mesenchymal biomarker expression patient samples containing tumor cells or proteins or nucleic acids produced by these tumor cells may be used in the methods of the present invention. In these embodiments the level of expression of the biomarker can be assessed by assessing the amount e.g. absolute amount or concentration of the marker in a tumor cell sample e.g. a tumor biopsy obtained from a patient or other patient sample containing material derived from the tumor e.g. blood serum urine or other bodily fluids or excretions as described herein above . The cell sample can of course be subjected to a variety of well known post collection preparative and storage techniques e.g. nucleic acid and or protein extraction fixation storage freezing ultrafiltration concentration evaporation centrifugation etc. prior to assessing the amount of the marker in the sample. Likewise tumor biopsies may also be subjected to post collection preparative and storage techniques e.g. fixation.

In the methods of the invention one can detect expression of biomarker proteins having at least one portion which is displayed on the surface of tumor cells which express it. It is a simple matter for the skilled artisan to determine whether a marker protein or a portion thereof is exposed on the cell surface. For example immunological methods may be used to detect such proteins on whole cells or well known computer based sequence analysis methods may be used to predict the presence of at least one extracellular domain i.e. including both secreted proteins and proteins having at least one cell surface domain . Expression of a marker protein having at least one portion which is displayed on the surface of a cell which expresses it may be detected without necessarily lysing the tumor cell e.g. using a labeled antibody which binds specifically with a cell surface domain of the protein .

Expression of a biomarkers described in this invention may be assessed by any of a wide variety of well known methods for detecting expression of a transcribed nucleic acid or protein. Non limiting examples of such methods include immunological methods for detection of secreted cell surface cytoplasmic or nuclear proteins protein purification methods protein function or activity assays nucleic acid hybridization methods nucleic acid reverse transcription methods and nucleic acid amplification methods.

In one embodiment expression of a biomarker is assessed using an antibody e.g. a radio labeled chromophore labeled fluorophore labeled or enzyme labeled antibody an antibody derivative e.g. an antibody conjugated with a substrate or with the protein or ligand of a protein ligand pair e.g. biotin streptavidin or an antibody fragment e.g. a single chain antibody an isolated antibody hypervariable domain etc. which binds specifically with a biomarker protein or fragment thereof including a biomarker protein which has undergone either all or a portion of post translational modifications to which it is normally subjected in the tumor cell e.g. glycosylation phosphorylation methylation etc. .

In another embodiment expression of a biomarker is assessed by preparing mRNA cDNA i.e. a transcribed polynucleotide from cells in a patient sample and by hybridizing the mRNA cDNA with a reference polynucleotide which is a complement of a biomarker nucleic acid or a fragment thereof. cDNA can optionally be amplified using any of a variety of polymerase chain reaction methods prior to hybridization with the reference polynucleotide. Expression of one or more biomarkers can likewise be detected using quantitative PCR to assess the level of expression of the biomarker s . Alternatively any of the many known methods of detecting mutations or variants e.g. single nucleotide polymorphisms deletions etc. of a biomarker of the invention may be used to detect occurrence of a biomarker in a patient.

In a related embodiment a mixture of transcribed polynucleotides obtained from the sample is contacted with a substrate having fixed thereto a polynucleotide complementary to or homologous with at least a portion e.g. at least 7 10 15 20 25 30 40 50 100 500 or more nucleotide residues of a biomarker nucleic acid. If polynucleotides complementary to or homologous with are differentially detectable on the substrate e.g. detectable using different chromophores or fluorophores or fixed to different selected positions then the levels of expression of a plurality of biomarkers can be assessed simultaneously using a single substrate e.g. a gene chip microarray of polynucleotides fixed at selected positions . When a method of assessing biomarker expression is used which involves hybridization of one nucleic acid with another it is preferred that the hybridization be performed under stringent hybridization conditions.

When a plurality of biomarkers of the invention are used in the methods of the invention the level of expression of each biomarker in a patient sample can be compared with the normal level of expression of each of the plurality of biomarkers in non cancerous samples of the same type either in a single reaction mixture i.e. using reagents such as different fluorescent probes for each biomarker or in individual reaction mixtures corresponding to one or more of the biomarkers.

The level of expression of a biomarker in normal i.e. non cancerous human tissue can be assessed in a variety of ways. In one embodiment this normal level of expression is assessed by assessing the level of expression of the biomarker in a portion of cells which appears to be non cancerous and then comparing this normal level of expression with the level of expression in a portion of the tumor cells. Alternately and particularly as further information becomes available as a result of routine performance of the methods described herein population average values for normal expression of the biomarkers of the invention may be used. In other embodiments the normal level of expression of a biomarker may be determined by assessing expression of the biomarker in a patient sample obtained from a non cancer afflicted patient from a patient sample obtained from a patient before the suspected onset of cancer in the patient from archived patient samples and the like.

An exemplary method for detecting the presence or absence of a biomarker protein or nucleic acid in a biological sample involves obtaining a biological sample e.g. a tumor associated body fluid from a test subject and contacting the biological sample with a compound or an agent capable of detecting the polypeptide or nucleic acid e.g. mRNA genomic DNA or cDNA . The detection methods of the invention can thus be used to detect mRNA protein cDNA or genomic DNA for example in a biological sample in vitro as well as in vivo. For example in vitro techniques for detection of mRNA include Northern hybridizations and in situ hybridizations. In vitro techniques for detection of a biomarker protein include enzyme linked immunosorbent assays ELISAs Western blots immunoprecipitations and immunofluorescence. In vitro techniques for detection of genomic DNA include Southern hybridizations. In vivo techniques for detection of mRNA include polymerase chain reaction PCR Northern hybridizations and in situ hybridizations. Furthermore in vivo techniques for detection of a biomarker protein include introducing into a subject a labeled antibody directed against the protein or fragment thereof. For example the antibody can be labeled with a radioactive marker whose presence and location in a subject can be detected by standard imaging techniques.

A general principle of such diagnostic and prognostic assays involves preparing a sample or reaction mixture that may contain a biomarker and a probe under appropriate conditions and for a time sufficient to allow the biomarker and probe to interact and bind thus forming a complex that can be removed and or detected in the reaction mixture. These assays can be conducted in a variety of ways.

For example one method to conduct such an assay would involve anchoring the biomarker or probe onto a solid phase support also referred to as a substrate and detecting target biomarker probe complexes anchored on the solid phase at the end of the reaction. In one embodiment of such a method a sample from a subject which is to be assayed for presence and or concentration of biomarker can be anchored onto a carrier or solid phase support. In another embodiment the reverse situation is possible in which the probe can be anchored to a solid phase and a sample from a subject can be allowed to react as an unanchored component of the assay.

There are many established methods for anchoring assay components to a solid phase. These include without limitation biomarker or probe molecules which are immobilized through conjugation of biotin and streptavidin. Such biotinylated assay components can be prepared from biotin NHS N hydroxy succinimide using techniques known in the art e.g. biotinylation kit Pierce Chemicals Rockford Ill. and immobilized in the wells of streptavidin coated 96 well plates Pierce Chemical . In certain embodiments the surfaces with immobilized assay components can be prepared in advance and stored.

Other suitable carriers or solid phase supports for such assays include any material capable of binding the class of molecule to which the biomarker or probe belongs. Well known supports or carriers include but are not limited to glass polystyrene nylon polypropylene nylon polyethylene dextran amylases natural and modified celluloses polyacrylamides gabbros and magnetite.

In order to conduct assays with the above mentioned approaches the non immobilized component is added to the solid phase upon which the second component is anchored. After the reaction is complete uncomplexed components may be removed e.g. by washing under conditions such that any complexes formed will remain immobilized upon the solid phase. The detection of biomarker probe complexes anchored to the solid phase can be accomplished in a number of methods outlined herein.

In one embodiment the probe when it is the unanchored assay component can be labeled for the purpose of detection and readout of the assay either directly or indirectly with detectable labels discussed herein and which are well known to one skilled in the art.

It is also possible to directly detect biomarker probe complex formation without further manipulation or labeling of either component biomarker or probe for example by utilizing the technique of fluorescence energy transfer i.e. FET see for example Lakowicz et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 631 169 Stavrianopoulos et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 868 103 . A fluorophore label on the first donor molecule is selected such that upon excitation with incident light of appropriate wavelength its emitted fluorescent energy will be absorbed by a fluorescent label on a second acceptor molecule which in turn is able to fluoresce due to the absorbed energy. Alternately the donor protein molecule may simply utilize the natural fluorescent energy of tryptophan residues. Labels are chosen that emit different wavelengths of light such that the acceptor molecule label may be differentiated from that of the donor . Since the efficiency of energy transfer between the labels is related to the distance separating the molecules spatial relationships between the molecules can be assessed. In a situation in which binding occurs between the molecules the fluorescent emission of the acceptor molecule label in the assay should be maximal. An FET binding event can be conveniently measured through standard fluorometric detection means well known in the art e.g. using a fluorimeter .

In another embodiment determination of the ability of a probe to recognize a biomarker can be accomplished without labeling either assay component probe or biomarker by utilizing a technology such as real time Biomolecular Interaction Analysis BIA see e.g. Sjolander S. and Urbaniczky C. 1991 Anal. Chem. 63 2338 2345 and Szabo et al. 1995 Curr. Opin. Struct. Biol. 5 699 705 . As used herein BIA or surface plasmon resonance is a technology for studying biospecific interactions in real time without labeling any of the interactants e.g. BIAcore . Changes in the mass at the binding surface indicative of a binding event result in alterations of the refractive index of light near the surface the optical phenomenon of surface plasmon resonance SPR resulting in a detectable signal which can be used as an indication of real time reactions between biological molecules.

Alternatively in another embodiment analogous diagnostic and prognostic assays can be conducted with biomarker and probe as solutes in a liquid phase. In such an assay the complexed biomarker and probe are separated from uncomplexed components by any of a number of standard techniques including but not limited to differential centrifugation chromatography electrophoresis and immunoprecipitation. In differential centrifugation biomarker probe complexes may be separated from uncomplexed assay components through a series of centrifugal steps due to the different sedimentation equilibria of complexes based on their different sizes and densities see for example Rivas G. and Minton A. P. 1993 Trends Biochem Sci. 18 8 284 7 . Standard chromatographic techniques may also be utilized to separate complexed molecules from uncomplexed ones. For example gel filtration chromatography separates molecules based on size and through the utilization of an appropriate gel filtration resin in a column format for example the relatively larger complex may be separated from the relatively smaller uncomplexed components. Similarly the relatively different charge properties of the biomarker probe complex as compared to the uncomplexed components may be exploited to differentiate the complex from uncomplexed components for example through the utilization of ion exchange chromatography resins. Such resins and chromatographic techniques are well known to one skilled in the art see e.g. Heegaard N. H. 1998 J. Mol. Recognit. Winter 11 1 6 141 8 Hage D. S. and Tweed S. A. J. Chromatogr B Biomed Sci Appl Oct. 10 1997 699 1 2 499 525 . Gel electrophoresis may also be employed to separate complexed assay components from unbound components see e.g. Ausubel et al. ed. Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley Sons New York 1987 1999 . In this technique protein or nucleic acid complexes are separated based on size or charge for example. In order to maintain the binding interaction during the electrophoretic process non denaturing gel matrix materials and conditions in the absence of reducing agent are typically preferred. Appropriate conditions to the particular assay and components thereof will be well known to one skilled in the art.

In a particular embodiment the level of biomarker mRNA can be determined both by in situ and by in vitro formats in a biological sample using methods known in the art. The term biological sample is intended to include tissues cells biological fluids and isolates thereof isolated from a subject as well as tissues cells and fluids present within a subject. Many expression detection methods use isolated RNA. For in vitro methods any RNA isolation technique that does not select against the isolation of mRNA can be utilized for the purification of RNA from tumor cells see e.g. Ausubel et al. ed. Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley Sons New York 1987 1999 . Additionally large numbers of tissue samples can readily be processed using techniques well known to those of skill in the art such as for example the single step RNA isolation process of Chomczynski 1989 U.S. Pat. No. 4 843 155 .

The isolated mRNA can be used in hybridization or amplification assays that include but are not limited to Southern or Northern analyses polymerase chain reaction analyses and probe arrays. One preferred diagnostic method for the detection of mRNA levels involves contacting the isolated mRNA with a nucleic acid molecule probe that can hybridize to the mRNA encoded by the gene being detected. The nucleic acid probe can be for example a full length cDNA or a portion thereof such as an oligonucleotide of at least 7 15 30 50 100 250 or 500 nucleotides in length and sufficient to specifically hybridize under stringent conditions to a mRNA or genomic DNA encoding a biomarker of the present invention. Other suitable probes for use in the diagnostic assays of the invention are described herein. Hybridization of an mRNA with the probe indicates that the biomarker in question is being expressed.

In one format the mRNA is immobilized on a solid surface and contacted with a probe for example by running the isolated mRNA on an agarose gel and transferring the mRNA from the gel to a membrane such as nitrocellulose. In an alternative format the probe s are immobilized on a solid surface and the mRNA is contacted with the probe s for example in an Affymetrix gene chip array. A skilled artisan can readily adapt known mRNA detection methods for use in detecting the level of mRNA encoded by the biomarkers of the present invention.

An alternative method for determining the level of mRNA biomarker in a sample involves the process of nucleic acid amplification e.g. by RT PCR the experimental embodiment set forth in Mullis 1987 U.S. Pat. No. 4 683 202 ligase chain reaction Barany 1991 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88 189 193 self sustained sequence replication Guatelli et al. 1990 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87 1874 1878 transcriptional amplification system Kwoh et al. 1989 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86 1173 1177 Q Beta Replicase Lizardi et al. 1988 Bio Technology 6 1197 rolling circle replication Lizardi et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 854 033 or any other nucleic acid amplification method followed by the detection of the amplified molecules using techniques well known to those of skill in the art. These detection schemes are especially useful for the detection of nucleic acid molecules if such molecules are present in very low numbers. As used herein amplification primers are defined as being a pair of nucleic acid molecules that can anneal to 5 or 3 regions of a gene plus and minus strands respectively or vice versa and contain a short region in between. In general amplification primers are from about 10 to 30 nucleotides in length and flank a region from about 50 to 200 nucleotides in length. Under appropriate conditions and with appropriate reagents such primers permit the amplification of a nucleic acid molecule comprising the nucleotide sequence flanked by the primers.

For in situ methods mRNA does not need to be isolated from the tumor cells prior to detection. In such methods a cell or tissue sample is prepared processed using known histological methods. The sample is then immobilized on a support typically a glass slide and then contacted with a probe that can hybridize to mRNA that encodes the biomarker.

As an alternative to making determinations based on the absolute expression level of the biomarker determinations may be based on the normalized expression level of the biomarker. Expression levels are normalized by correcting the absolute expression level of a biomarker by comparing its expression to the expression of a gene that is not a biomarker e.g. a housekeeping gene that is constitutively expressed. Suitable genes for normalization include housekeeping genes such as the actin gene or epithelial cell specific genes. This normalization allows the comparison of the expression level in one sample e.g. a patient sample to another sample e.g. a non tumor sample or between samples from different sources.

Alternatively the expression level can be provided as a relative expression level. To determine a relative expression level of a biomarker e.g. a mesenchymal biomarker the level of expression of the biomarker is determined for 10 or more samples of normal versus cancer cell isolates preferably 50 or more samples prior to the determination of the expression level for the sample in question. The mean expression level of each of the genes assayed in the larger number of samples is determined and this is used as a baseline expression level for the biomarker. The expression level of the biomarker determined for the test sample absolute level of expression is then divided by the mean expression value obtained for that biomarker. This provides a relative expression level.

In another embodiment of the present invention a biomarker protein is detected. A preferred agent for detecting biomarker protein of the invention is an antibody capable of binding to such a protein or a fragment thereof preferably an antibody with a detectable label. Antibodies can be polyclonal or more preferably monoclonal. An intact antibody or a fragment or derivative thereof e.g. Fab or F ab .sub.2 can be used. The term labeled with regard to the probe or antibody is intended to encompass direct labeling of the probe or antibody by coupling i.e. physically linking a detectable substance to the probe or antibody as well as indirect labeling of the probe or antibody by reactivity with another reagent that is directly labeled. Examples of indirect labeling include detection of a primary antibody using a fluorescently labeled secondary antibody and end labeling of a DNA probe with biotin such that it can be detected with fluorescently labeled streptavidin.

Proteins from tumor cells can be isolated using techniques that are well known to those of skill in the art. The protein isolation methods employed can for example be such as those described in Harlow and Lane Harlow and Lane 1988 Antibodies A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. .

A variety of formats can be employed to determine whether a sample contains a protein that binds to a given antibody. Examples of such formats include but are not limited to enzyme immunoassay EIA radioimmunoassay RIA Western blot analysis and enzyme linked immunoabsorbant assay ELISA . A skilled artisan can readily adapt known protein antibody detection methods for use in determining whether tumor cells express a biomarker of the present invention.

In one format antibodies or antibody fragments or derivatives can be used in methods such as Western blots or immunofluorescence techniques to detect the expressed proteins. In such uses it is generally preferable to immobilize either the antibody or proteins on a solid support. Suitable solid phase supports or carriers include any support capable of binding an antigen or an antibody. Well known supports or carriers include glass polystyrene polypropylene polyethylene dextran nylon amylases natural and modified celluloses polyacrylamides gabbros and magnetite.

One skilled in the art will know many other suitable carriers for binding antibody or antigen and will be able to adapt such support for use with the present invention. For example protein isolated from tumor cells can be run on a polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immobilized onto a solid phase support such as nitrocellulose. The support can then be washed with suitable buffers followed by treatment with the detectably labeled antibody. The solid phase support can then be washed with the buffer a second time to remove unbound antibody. The amount of bound label on the solid support can then be detected by conventional means.

For ELISA assays specific binding pairs can be of the immune or non immune type. Immune specific binding pairs are exemplified by antigen antibody systems or hapten anti hapten systems. There can be mentioned fluorescein anti fluorescein dinitrophenyl anti dinitrophenyl biotin anti biotin peptide anti peptide and the like. The antibody member of the specific binding pair can be produced by customary methods familiar to those skilled in the art. Such methods involve immunizing an animal with the antigen member of the specific binding pair. If the antigen member of the specific binding pair is not immunogenic e.g. a hapten it can be covalently coupled to a carrier protein to render it immunogenic. Non immune binding pairs include systems wherein the two components share a natural affinity for each other but are not antibodies. Exemplary non immune pairs are biotin streptavidin intrinsic factor vitamin B folic acid folate binding protein and the like.

A variety of methods are available to covalently label antibodies with members of specific binding pairs. Methods are selected based upon the nature of the member of the specific binding pair the type of linkage desired and the tolerance of the antibody to various conjugation chemistries. Biotin can be covalently coupled to antibodies by utilizing commercially available active derivatives. Some of these are biotin N hydroxy succinimide which binds to amine groups on proteins biotin hydrazide which binds to carbohydrate moieties aldehydes and carboxyl groups via a carbodiimide coupling and biotin maleimide and iodoacetyl biotin which bind to sulfhydryl groups. Fluorescein can be coupled to protein amine groups using fluorescein isothiocyanate. Dinitrophenyl groups can be coupled to protein amine groups using 2 4 dinitrobenzene sulfate or 2 4 dinitrofluorobenzene. Other standard methods of conjugation can be employed to couple monoclonal antibodies to a member of a specific binding pair including dialdehyde carbodiimide coupling homofunctional crosslinking and heterobifunctional crosslinking. Carbodiimide coupling is an effective method of coupling carboxyl groups on one substance to amine groups on another. Carbodiimide coupling is facilitated by using the commercially available reagent 1 ethyl 3 dimethyl aminopropyl carbodiimide EDAC .

Homobifunctional crosslinkers including the bifunctional imidoesters and bifunctional N hydroxysuccinimide esters are commercially available and are employed for coupling amine groups on one substance to amine groups on another. Heterobifunctional crosslinkers are reagents which possess different functional groups. The most common commercially available heterobifunctional crosslinkers have an amine reactive N hydroxysuccinimide ester as one functional group and a sulfhydryl reactive group as the second functional group. The most common sulfhydryl reactive groups are maleimides pyridyl disulfides and active halogens. One of the functional groups can be a photoactive aryl nitrene which upon irradiation reacts with a variety of groups.

The detectably labeled antibody or detectably labeled member of the specific binding pair is prepared by coupling to a reporter which can be a radioactive isotope enzyme fluorogenic chemiluminescent or electrochemical materials. Two commonly used radioactive isotopes are I and H. Standard radioactive isotopic labeling procedures include the chloramine T lactoperoxidase and Bolton Hunter methods for I and reductive methylation for H. The term detectably labeled refers to a molecule labeled in such a way that it can be readily detected by the intrinsic enzymic activity of the label or by the binding to the label of another component which can itself be readily detected.

Enzymes suitable for use in this invention include but are not limited to horseradish peroxidase alkaline phosphatase galactosidase glucose oxidase luciferases including firefly and renilla lactamase urease green fluorescent protein GFP and lysozyme. Enzyme labeling is facilitated by using dialdehyde carbodiimide coupling homobifunctional crosslinkers and heterobifunctional crosslinkers as described above for coupling an antibody with a member of a specific binding pair.

The labeling method chosen depends on the functional groups available on the enzyme and the material to be labeled and the tolerance of both to the conjugation conditions. The labeling method used in the present invention can be one of but not limited to any conventional methods currently employed including those described by Engvall and Pearlmann Immunochemistry 8 871 1971 Avrameas and Temynck Immunochemistry 8 1175 1975 Ishikawa et al. J. Immunoassay 4 3 209 327 1983 and Jablonski Anal. Biochem. 148 199 1985 .

Labeling can be accomplished by indirect methods such as using spacers or other members of specific binding pairs. An example of this is the detection of a biotinylated antibody with unlabeled streptavidin and biotinylated enzyme with streptavidin and biotinylated enzyme being added either sequentially or simultaneously. Thus according to the present invention the antibody used to detect can be detectably labeled directly with a reporter or indirectly with a first member of a specific binding pair. When the antibody is coupled to a first member of a specific binding pair then detection is effected by reacting the antibody first member of a specific binding complex with the second member of the binding pair that is labeled or unlabeled as mentioned above.

Moreover the unlabeled detector antibody can be detected by reacting the unlabeled antibody with a labeled antibody specific for the unlabeled antibody. In this instance detectably labeled as used above is taken to mean containing an epitope by which an antibody specific for the unlabeled antibody can bind. Such an anti antibody can be labeled directly or indirectly using any of the approaches discussed above. For example the anti antibody can be coupled to biotin which is detected by reacting with the streptavidin horseradish peroxidase system discussed above.

In one embodiment of this invention biotin is utilized. The biotinylated antibody is in turn reacted with streptavidin horseradish peroxidase complex. Orthophenylenediamine 4 chloro naphthol tetramethylbenzidine TMB ABTS BTS or ASA can be used to effect chromogenic detection.

In one immunoassay format for practicing this invention a forward sandwich assay is used in which the capture reagent has been immobilized using conventional techniques on the surface of a support. Suitable supports used in assays include synthetic polymer supports such as polypropylene polystyrene substituted polystyrene e.g. aminated or carboxylated polystyrene polyacrylamides polyamides polyvinylchloride glass beads agarose or nitrocellulose.

The invention also encompasses kits for detecting the presence of a biomarker protein or nucleic acid in a biological sample. Such kits can be used to determine if a subject is suffering from or is at increased risk of developing a tumor that is less susceptible to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors. For example the kit can comprise a labeled compound or agent capable of detecting a biomarker protein or nucleic acid in a biological sample and means for determining the amount of the protein or mRNA in the sample e.g. an antibody which binds the protein or a fragment thereof or an oligonucleotide probe which binds to DNA or mRNA encoding the protein . Kits can also include instructions for interpreting the results obtained using the kit.

For antibody based kits the kit can comprise for example 1 a first antibody e.g. attached to a solid support which binds to a biomarker protein and optionally 2 a second different antibody which binds to either the protein or the first antibody and is conjugated to a detectable label.

For oligonucleotide based kits the kit can comprise for example 1 an oligonucleotide e.g. a detectably labeled oligonucleotide which hybridizes to a nucleic acid sequence encoding a biomarker protein or 2 a pair of primers useful for amplifying a biomarker nucleic acid molecule. The kit can also comprise e.g. a buffering agent a preservative or a protein stabilizing agent. The kit can further comprise components necessary for detecting the detectable label e.g. an enzyme or a substrate . The kit can also contain a control sample or a series of control samples which can be assayed and compared to the test sample. Each component of the kit can be enclosed within an individual container and all of the various containers can be within a single package along with instructions for interpreting the results of the assays performed using the kit.

The present invention further provides a method for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising the steps of diagnosing a patient s likely responsiveness to an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor by assessing whether the tumor cells have undergone an epithelial mesenchymal transition by for example any of the methods described herein for determining the expression level of tumor cell epithelial and or mesenchymal biomarkers and administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. For this method an example of a preferred IGF 1R kinase inhibitor would be one with similar characteristics e.g. selectivity potency to Compound 66 including pharmacologically acceptable salts or polymorphs thereof. In this method one or more additional anti cancer agents or treatments can be co administered simultaneously or sequentially with the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor as judged to be appropriate by the administering physician given the prediction of the likely responsiveness of the patient to an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor in combination with any additional circumstances pertaining to the individual patient.

It will be appreciated by one of skill in the medical arts that the exact manner of administering to said patient of a therapeutically effective amount of an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor following a diagnosis of a patient s likely responsiveness to an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor will be at the discretion of the attending physician. The mode of administration including dosage combination with other anti cancer agents timing and frequency of administration and the like may be affected by the diagnosis of a patient s likely responsiveness to an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor as well as the patient s condition and history. Thus even patients diagnosed with tumors predicted to be relatively insensitive to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors may still benefit from treatment with such inhibitors particularly in combination with other anti cancer agents or agents that may alter a tumor s sensitivity to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors.

The present invention further provides a method for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising the steps of diagnosing a patient s likely responsiveness to an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor by assessing whether the tumor cells have undergone an epithelial mesenchymal transition by for example any of the methods described herein for determining the expression level of tumor cell epithelial and or mesenchymal biomarkers identifying the patient as one who is likely to demonstrate an effective response to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor and administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

The present invention further provides a method for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising the steps of diagnosing a patient s likely responsiveness to an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor by assessing whether the tumor cells have undergone an epithelial mesenchymal transition by for example any of the methods described herein for determining the expression level of tumor cell epithelial and or mesenchymal biomarkers identifying the patient as one who is less likely or not likely to demonstrate an effective response to treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor and treating said patient with an anti cancer therapy other than an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

The present invention further provides a method of identifying an epithelial biomarker whose expression level is predictive of the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising a measuring the expression level of a candidate epithelial biomarker in a panel of tumor cells that displays a range of sensitivities to an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor and b identifying a correlation between the expression level of said candidate epithelial biomarker in the tumor cells and the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein a correlation of high levels of the epithelial biomarker with high sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor indicates that the expression level of said epithelial biomarker is predictive of the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. In one embodiment of this method the panel of tumor cells is a panel of tumor cell lines. In an alternative embodiment the panel of tumor cells is a panel of primary tumor cells prepared from tumor samples derived from patients or experimental animal models. In an additional embodiment the panel of tumor cells is a panel of tumor cell lines in mouse xenografts wherein tumor cell growth can for example be determined by monitoring a molecular marker of growth or a gross measurement of tumor growth e.g. tumor dimensions or weight.

The present invention further provides a method of identifying a mesenchymal biomarker whose expression level is predictive of the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising a measuring the expression level of a candidate mesenchymal biomarker in a panel of tumor cells that displays a range of sensitivities to an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor and b identifying a correlation between the expression level of said candidate mesenchymal biomarker in the tumor cells and the sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein a correlation of high levels of the mesenchymal biomarker with low sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor indicates that the expression level of said mesenchymal biomarker is predictive of the lack of sensitivity of tumor cell growth to inhibition by an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. In one embodiment of this method the panel of tumor cells is a panel of tumor cell lines. In an alternative embodiment the panel of tumor cells is a panel of primary tumor cells prepared from tumor samples derived from patients or experimental animal models. In an additional embodiment the panel of tumor cells is a panel of tumor cell lines in mouse xenografts wherein tumor cell growth can for example be determined by monitoring a molecular marker of growth or a gross measurement of tumor growth e.g. tumor dimensions or weight.

The present invention further provides a method of identifying an epithelial biomarker that is diagnostic for more effective treatment of a neoplastic condition with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising a measuring the level of a candidate epithelial biomarker in neoplastic cell containing samples from patients with a neoplastic condition and b identifying a correlation between the level of said candidate epithelial biomarker in the sample from the patient with the effectiveness of treatment of the neoplastic condition with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein a correlation of high levels of the epithelial biomarker with more effective treatment of the neoplastic condition with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor indicates that said epithelial biomarker is diagnostic for more effective treatment of the neoplastic condition with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

The present invention further provides a method of identifying a mesenchymal biomarker that is diagnostic for less effective treatment of a neoplastic condition with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising a measuring the level of a candidate mesenchymal biomarker in neoplastic cell containing samples from patients with a neoplastic condition and b identifying a correlation between the level of said candidate mesenchymal biomarker in the sample from the patient with the effectiveness of treatment of the neoplastic condition with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein a correlation of high levels of the mesenchymal biomarker with less effective treatment of the neoplastic condition with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor indicates that said mesenchymal biomarker is diagnostic for less effective treatment of the neoplastic condition with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

The effectiveness of treatment in the preceding methods can for example be determined by measuring the decrease in size of tumors present in the patients with the neoplastic condition or by assaying a molecular determinant of the degree of proliferation of the tumor cells.

The present invention provides a method of identifying an epithelial biomarker that is diagnostic for increased survival of a patient with a neoplastic condition when treated with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising a measuring the level of the candidate epithelial biomarker in neoplastic cell containing samples from patients with a neoplastic condition and b identifying a correlation between the level of said candidate epithelial biomarker in the sample from the patient with the survival of that patient when treated with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein the correlation of an epithelial biomarker with survival in said patients indicates said epithelial biomarker is diagnostic for increased survival of a patient with said neoplastic condition when treated with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

The present invention provides a method of identifying a mesenchymal biomarker that is diagnostic for decreased survival of a patient with a neoplastic condition when treated with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor comprising a measuring the level of the candidate mesenchymal biomarker in neoplastic cell containing samples from patients with a neoplastic condition and b identifying an inverse correlation between the level of said candidate mesenchymal biomarker in the sample from the patient with the survival of that patient when treated with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor wherein the inverse correlation of a mesenchymal biomarker with survival in said patients indicates said mesenchymal biomarker is diagnostic for decreased survival of a patient with said neoplastic condition when treated with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

The present invention provides a method for the identification of an agent that enhances sensitivity of the growth of a tumor cell to an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor said tumor cell having being characterized as one that has previously undergone an epithelial mesenchymal transition comprising contacting a sample of said tumor cells with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor contacting an identical sample of said tumor cells with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor in the presence of a test agent comparing the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor mediated growth inhibition in the presence and absence of the test agent and determining whether the test agent is an agent that enhances sensitivity of the growth of the tumor cell to an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. For this method an example of a preferred IGF 1R kinase inhibitor would be a compund with similar characteristics to Compound 66 including pharmacologically acceptable salts or polymorphs thereof. In one embodiment of this method the sample of tumor cells can be cells in vitro such as a tumor cell line or a primary tumor cell culture. In an alternative embodiment the sample of tumor cells can be cells in vivo such as tumor cells in a mouse xenograft. In the latter embodiment tumor cell growth can for example be determined by monitoring a molecular marker of growth or a gross measurement of tumor growth e.g. tumor dimensions or weight.

Suitable test agents which can be tested in the preceding method include combinatorial libraries defined chemical entities peptide and peptide mimetics oligonucleotides and natural product libraries such as display e.g. phage display libraries and antibody products. Test agents may be used in an initial screen of for example 10 substances per reaction and the substances of these batches which show inhibition or activation tested individually. Test agents may be used at a concentration of from 1 nM to 1000 M preferably from 1 M to 100 M more preferably from 1 M to 10 M.

Agents which enhances sensitivity of the growth of a tumor cell to an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor which have been identified by the preceding methods can be used in the treatment of patients with cancers which are predicted to be less responsive to inhibition by IGF 1R kinase inhibitors including lung cancer or any of the other cancer types described herein and are an additional embodiment of this invention. Thus the present invention further provides a composition of matter comprising such an agent which may be formulated and administered by any of the methods known in the art including those described herein in relation to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors. Such agents that enhances sensitivity of the growth of a tumor cell to an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor may for example be agents that induce a mesenchymal to epithelial transition MET or that inhibit a specific cellular activity responsible for reduced sensitivity to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors or induce a specific cellular activity that enhances sensitivity to IGF 1R kinase inhibitors. Examples of suitable agents include antagonists of EMT inducing agents.

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor and in addition simultaneously or sequentially one or more other cytotoxic chemotherapeutic or anti cancer agents or compounds that enhance the effects of such agents.

In the context of this invention additional other cytotoxic chemotherapeutic or anti cancer agents or compounds that enhance the effects of such agents include for example alkylating agents or agents with an alkylating action such as cyclophosphamide CTX e.g. CYTOXAN chlorambucil CHL e.g. LEUKERAN cisplatin CisP e.g. PLATINOL busulfan e.g. MYLERAN melphalan carmustine BCNU streptozotocin triethylenemelamine TEM mitomycin C and the like anti metabolites such as methotrexate MTX etoposide VP16 e.g. VEPESID 6 mercaptopurine 6MP 6 thiocguanine 6TG cytarabine Ara C 5 fluorouracil 5 FU capecitabine e.g. XELODA dacarbazine DTIC and the like antibiotics such as actinomycin D doxorubicin DXR e.g. ADRIAMYCIN daunorubicin daunomycin bleomycin mithramycin and the like alkaloids such as vinca alkaloids such as vincristine VCR vinblastine and the like and other antitumor agents such as paclitaxel e.g. TAXOL and pactitaxel derivatives the cytostatic agents glucocorticoids such as dexamethasone DEX e.g. DECADRON and corticosteroids such as prednisone nucleoside enzyme inhibitors such as hydroxyurea amino acid depleting enzymes such as asparaginase leucovorin and other folic acid derivatives and similar diverse antitumor agents. The following agents may also be used as additional agents arnifostine e.g. ETHYOL dactinomycin mechlorethamine nitrogen mustard streptozocin cyclophosphamide lomustine CCNU doxorubicin lipo e.g. DOXIL gemcitabine e.g. GEMZAR daunorubicin lipo e.g. DAUNOXOME procarbazine mitomycin docetaxel e.g. TAXOTERE aldesleukin carboplatin oxaliplatin cladribine camptothecin CPT 11 irinotecan 10 hydroxy 7 ethyl camptothecin SN38 floxuridine fludarabine ifosfamide idarubicin mesna interferon beta interferon alpha mitoxantrone topotecan leuprolide megestrol melphalan mercaptopurine plicamycin mitotane pegaspargase pentostatin pipobroman plicamycin tamoxifen teniposide testolactone thioguanine thiotepa uracil mustard vinorelbine chlorambucil.

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor and in addition simultaneously or sequentially one or more anti hormonal agents. As used herein the term anti hormonal agent includes natural or synthetic organic or peptidic compounds that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors.

Antihormonal agents include for example steroid receptor antagonists anti estrogens such as tamoxifen raloxifene aromatase inhibiting 4 5 imidazoles other aromatase inhibitors 42 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY 117018 onapristone and toremifene e.g. FARESTON anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above agonists and or antagonists of glycoprotein hormones such as follicle stimulating hormone FSH thyroid stimulating hormone TSH and luteinizing hormone LH and LHRH leuteinizing hormone releasing hormone the LHRH agonist goserelin acetate commercially available as ZOLADEX AstraZeneca the LHRH antagonist D alaninamide N acetyl 3 2 naphthalenyl D alanyl 4 chloro D phenylalanyl 3 3 pyridinyl D alanyl L seryl N6 3 pyridinylcarbonyl L lysyl N6 3 pyridinylcarbonyl D lysyl L leucyl N6 1 methylethyl L lysyl L proline e.g ANTIDE Ares Serono the LHRH antagonist ganirelix acetate the steroidal anti androgens cyproterone acetate CPA and megestrol acetate commercially available as MEGACE Bristol Myers Oncology the nonsteroidal anti androgen flutamide 2 methyl N 4 20 nitro 3 trifluoromethyl phenylpropanamide commercially available as EULEXIN Schering Corp. the non steroidal anti androgen nilutamide 5 5 dimethyl 3 4 nitro 3 trifluoromethyl 4 nitrophenyl 4 4 dimethyl imidazolidine dione and antagonists for other non permissive receptors such as antagonists for RAR RXR TR VDR and the like.

The use of the cytotoxic and other anticancer agents described above in chemotherapeutic regimens is generally well characterized in the cancer therapy arts and their use herein falls under the same considerations for monitoring tolerance and effectiveness and for controlling administration routes and dosages with some adjustments. For example the actual dosages of the cytotoxic agents may vary depending upon the patient s cultured cell response determined by using histoculture methods. Generally the dosage will be reduced compared to the amount used in the absence of additional other agents.

Typical dosages of an effective cytotoxic agent can be in the ranges recommended by the manufacturer and where indicated by in vitro responses or responses in animal models can be reduced by up to about one order of magnitude concentration or amount. Thus the actual dosage will depend upon the judgment of the physician the condition of the patient and the effectiveness of the therapeutic method based on the in vitro responsiveness of the primary cultured malignant cells or histocultured tissue sample or the responses observed in the appropriate animal models.

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor and in addition simultaneously or sequentially one or more angiogenesis inhibitors.

Anti angiogenic agents include for example VEGFR inhibitors such as SU 5416 and SU 6668 Sugen Inc. of South San Francisco Calif. USA or as described in for example International Application Nos. WO 99 24440 WO 99 62890 WO 95 21613 WO 99 61422 WO 98 50356 WO 99 10349 WO 97 32856 WO 97 22596 WO 98 54093 WO 98 02438 WO 99 16755 and WO 98 02437 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 883 113 5 886 020 5 792 783 5 834 504 and 6 235 764 VEGF inhibitors such as IM862 Cytran Inc. of Kirkland Wash. USA angiozyme a synthetic ribozyme from Ribozyme Boulder Colo. and Chiron Emeryville Calif. and antibodies to VEGF such as bevacizumab e.g. AVASTIN Genentech South San Francisco Calif. a recombinant humanized antibody to VEGF integrin receptor antagonists and integrin antagonists such as to and integrins and subtypes thereof e.g. cilengitide EMD 121974 or the anti integrin antibodies such as for example specific humanized antibodies e.g. VITAXIN factors such as IFN alpha U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 530 901 4 503 035 and 5 231 176 angiostatin and plasminogen fragments e.g. kringle 1 4 kringle 5 kringle 1 3 O Reilly M. S. et al. 1994 Cell 79 315 328 Cao et al. 1996 J. Biol. Chem. 271 29461 29467 Cao et al. 1997 J. Biol. Chem. 272 22924 22928 endostatin O Reilly M. S. et al. 1997 Cell 88 277 and International Patent Publication No. WO 97 15666 thrombospondin TSP 1 Frazier 1991 Curr. Opin. Cell Biol. 3 792 platelet factor 4 PF4 plasminogen activator urokinase inhibitors urokinase receptor antagonists heparinases fumagillin analogs such as TNP4701 suramin and suramin analogs angiostatic steroids bFGF antagonists flk 1 and flt 1 antagonists anti angiogenesis agents such as MMP 2 matrix metalloproteinase 2 inhibitors and MMP 9 matrix metalloproteinase 9 inhibitors. Examples of useful matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors are described in International Patent Publication Nos. WO 96 33172 WO 96 27583 WO 98 07697 WO 98 03516 WO 98 34918 WO 98 34915 WO 98 33768 WO 98 30566 WO 90 05719 WO 99 52910 WO 99 52889 WO 99 29667 and WO 99 07675 European Patent Publication Nos. 818 442 780 386 1 004 578 606 046 and 931 788 Great Britain Patent Publication No. 9912961 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 863 949 and 5 861 510. Preferred MMP 2 and MMP 9 inhibitors are those that have little or no activity inhibiting MMP 1. More preferred are those that selectively inhibit MMP 2 and or MMP 9 relative to the other matrix metalloproteinases i.e. MMP 1 MMP 3 MMP 4 MMP 5 MMP 6 MMP 7 MMP 8 MMP 10 MMP 11 MMP 12 and MMP 13 .

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor and in addition simultaneously or sequentially one or more tumor cell pro apoptotic or apoptosis stimulating agents.

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor and in addition simultaneously or sequentially one or more signal transduction inhibitors.

Signal transduction inhibitors include for example EGFR kinase inhibitors such as organic molecules for example erlotinib HCl TARCEVA or antibodies that bind to the EGF receptor erbB2 receptor inhibitors such as organic molecules or antibodies that bind to the erbB2 receptor for example trastuzumab e.g. HERCEPTIN inhibitors of other protein tyrosine kinases e.g. imitinib e.g. GLEEVEC ras inhibitors raf inhibitors e.g. BAY 43 9006 Onyx Pharmaceuticals Bayer Pharmaceuticals MEK inhibitors mTOR inhibitors cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors protein kinase C inhibitors and PDK 1 inhibitors see Dancey J. and Sausville E. A. 2003 Nature Rev. Drug Discovery 2 92 313 for a description of several examples of such inhibitors and their use in clinical trials for the treatment of cancer .

EGFR inhibitors include for example 6 7 bis 2 methoxyethoxy 4 quinazolin 4 yl 3 ethynylphenyl amine also known as OSI 774 erlotinib or TARCEVA erlotinib HCl OSI Pharmaceuticals Genentech Roche U.S. Pat. No. 5 747 498 International Patent Publication No. WO 01 34574 and Moyer J. D. et al. 1997 Cancer Res. 57 4838 4848 CI 1033 formerly known as PD 183805 Pfizer Sherwood et al. 1999 Proc. Am. Assoc. Cancer Res. 40 723 PD 158780 Pfizer AG 1478 University of California CGP 59326 Novartis PKI 166 Novartis EKB 569 Wyeth GW 2016 also known as GW 572016 or lapatinib ditosylate GSK gefitinib also known as ZD1839 or IRESSA Astrazeneca Woodburn et al. 1997 Proc. Am. Assoc. Cancer Res. 38 633 and antibody based EGFR kinase inhibitors. A particularly preferred low molecular weight EGFR kinase inhibitor that can be used according to the present invention is 6 7 bis 2 methoxyethoxy 4 quinazolin 4 yl 3 ethynylphenyl amine i.e. erlotinib its hydrochloride salt i.e. erlotinib HCl TARCEVA or other salt forms e.g. erlotinib mesylate . Antibody based EGFR kinase inhibitors include any anti EGFR antibody or antibody fragment that can partially or completely block EGFR activation by its natural ligand. Non limiting examples of antibody based EGFR kinase inhibitors include those described in Modjtahedi H. et al. 1993 Br. J. Cancer 67 247 253 Teramoto T. et al. 1996 Cancer 77 639 645 Goldstein et al. 1995 Clin. Cancer Res. 1 1311 1318 Huang S. M. et al. 1999 Cancer Res. 15 59 8 1935 40 and Yang X. et al. 1999 Cancer Res. 59 1236 1243. Thus the EGFR kinase inhibitor can be the monoclonal antibody Mab E7.6.3 Yang X. D. et al. 1999 Cancer Res. 59 1236 43 or Mab C225 ATCC Accession No. HB 8508 or an antibody or antibody fragment having the binding specificity thereof. Suitable monoclonal antibody EGFR kinase inhibitors include but are not limited to IMC C225 also known as cetuximab or ERBITUX Imclone Systems ABX EGF Abgenix EMD 72000 Merck KgaA Darmstadt RH3 York Medical Bioscience Inc. and MDX 447 Medarex Merck KgaA .

ErbB2 receptor inhibitors include for example ErbB2 receptor inhibitors such as GW 282974 Glaxo Wellcome plc monoclonal antibodies such as AR 209 Aronex Pharmaceuticals Inc. of The Woodlands Tex. USA and 2B 1 Chiron and erbB2 inhibitors such as those described in International Publication Nos. WO 98 02434 WO 99 35146 WO 99 35132 WO 98 02437 WO 97 13760 and WO 95 19970 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 587 458 5 877 305 6 465 449 and 6 541 481.

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor and in addition simultaneously or sequentially an anti HER2 antibody or an immunotherapeutically active fragment thereof.

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor and in addition simultaneously or sequentially one or more additional anti proliferative agents.

Additional antiproliferative agents include for example Inhibitors of the enzyme famesyl protein transferase and inhibitors of the receptor tyrosine kinase PDGFR including the compounds disclosed and claimed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 080 769 6 194 438 6 258 824 6 586 447 6 071 935 6 495 564 6 150 377 6 596 735 and 6 479 513 and International Patent Publication WO 01 40217.

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor and in addition simultaneously or sequentially a COX II cyclooxygenase II inhibitor. Examples of useful COX II inhibitors include alecoxib e.g. CELEBREX valdecoxib and rofecoxib.

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor and in addition simultaneously or sequentially treatment with radiation or a radiopharmaceutical.

The source of radiation can be either external or internal to the patient being treated. When the source is external to the patient the therapy is known as external beam radiation therapy EBRT . When the source of radiation is internal to the patient the treatment is called brachytherapy BT . Radioactive atoms for use in the context of this invention can be selected from the group including but not limited to radium cesium 137 iridium 192 americium 241 gold 198 cobalt 57 copper 67 technetium 99 iodine 123 iodine 131 and indium 111. Where the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor according to this invention is an antibody it is also possible to label the antibody with such radioactive isotopes.

Radiation therapy is a standard treatment for controlling unresectable or inoperable tumors and or tumor metastases. Improved results have been seen when radiation therapy has been combined with chemotherapy. Radiation therapy is based on the principle that high dose radiation delivered to a target area will result in the death of reproductive cells in both tumor and normal tissues. The radiation dosage regimen is generally defined in terms of radiation absorbed dose Gy time and fractionation and must be carefully defined by the oncologist. The amount of radiation a patient receives will depend on various considerations but the two most important are the location of the tumor in relation to other critical structures or organs of the body and the extent to which the tumor has spread. A typical course of treatment for a patient undergoing radiation therapy will be a treatment schedule over a 1 to 6 week period with a total dose of between 10 and 80 Gy administered to the patient in a single daily fraction of about 1.8 to 2.0 Gy 5 days a week. In a preferred embodiment of this invention there is synergy when tumors in human patients are treated with the combination treatment of the invention and radiation. In other words the inhibition of tumor growth by means of the agents comprising the combination of the invention is enhanced when combined with radiation optionally with additional chemotherapeutic or anticancer agents. Parameters of adjuvant radiation therapies are for example contained in International Patent Publication WO 99 60023.

The present invention further provides the preceding methods for treating tumors or tumor metastases in a patient comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor and in addition simultaneously or sequentially treatment with one or more agents capable of enhancing antitumor immune responses.

Agents capable of enhancing antitumor immune responses include for example CTLA4 cytotoxic lymphocyte antigen 4 antibodies e.g. MDX CTLA4 and other agents capable of blocking CTLA4. Specific CTLA4 antibodies that can be used in the present invention include those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 682 736.

In the context of this invention an effective amount of an agent or therapy is as defined above. A sub therapeutic amount of an agent or therapy is an amount less than the effective amount for that agent or therapy but when combined with an effective or sub therapeutic amount of another agent or therapy can produce a result desired by the physician due to for example synergy in the resulting efficacious effects or reduced side effects.

As used herein the term patient preferably refers to a human in need of treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor for any purpose and more preferably a human in need of such a treatment to treat cancer or a precancerous condition or lesion. However the term patient can also refer to non human animals preferably mammals such as dogs cats horses cows pigs sheep and non human primates among others that are in need of treatment with an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

In a preferred embodiment the patient is a human in need of treatment for cancer a precancerous condition or lesion or other forms of abnormal cell growth. The cancer is preferably any cancer treatable either partially or completely by administration of an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor. The cancer may be for example lung cancer non small cell lung NSCL cancer bronchioloalviolar cell lung cancer bone cancer pancreatic cancer skin cancer cancer of the head or neck cutaneous or intraocular melanoma uterine cancer ovarian cancer rectal cancer cancer of the anal region stomach cancer gastric cancer colon cancer breast cancer uterine cancer carcinoma of the fallopian tubes carcinoma of the endometrium carcinoma of the cervix carcinoma of the vagina carcinoma of the vulva Hodgkin s Disease cancer of the esophagus cancer of the small intestine cancer of the endocrine system cancer of the thyroid gland cancer of the parathyroid gland cancer of the adrenal gland sarcoma of soft tissue cancer of the urethra cancer of the penis prostate cancer cancer of the bladder cancer of the kidney or ureter renal cell carcinoma carcinoma of the renal pelvis mesothelioma hepatocellular cancer biliary cancer chronic or acute leukemia lymphocytic lymphomas neoplasms of the central nervous system CNS spinal axis tumors brain stem glioma glioblastoma multiforme astrocytomas schwannomas ependymomas medulloblastomas meningiomas squamous cell carcinomas pituitary adenomas including refractory versions of any of the above cancers or a combination of one or more of the above cancers. The precancerous condition or lesion includes for example the group consisting of oral leukoplakia actinic keratosis solar keratosis precancerous polyps of the colon or rectum gastric epithelial dysplasia adenomatous dysplasia hereditary nonpolyposis colon cancer syndrome HNPCC Barrett s esophagus bladder dysplasia and precancerous cervical conditions.

The term refractory as used herein is used to define a cancer for which treatment e.g. chemotherapy drugs biological agents and or radiation therapy has proven to be ineffective. A refractory cancer tumor may shrink but not to the point where the treatment is determined to be effective. Typically however the tumor stays the same size as it was before treatment stable disease or it grows progressive disease .

For purposes of the present invention co administration of and co administering an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor with an additional anti cancer agent both components referred to hereinafter as the two active agents refer to any administration of the two active agents either separately or together where the two active agents are administered as part of an appropriate dose regimen designed to obtain the benefit of the combination therapy. Thus the two active agents can be administered either as part of the same pharmaceutical composition or in separate pharmaceutical compositions. The additional agent can be administered prior to at the same time as or subsequent to administration of the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor or in some combination thereof. Where the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor is administered to the patient at repeated intervals e.g. during a standard course of treatment the additional agent can be administered prior to at the same time as or subsequent to each administration of the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor or some combination thereof or at different intervals in relation to the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor treatment or in a single dose prior to at any time during or subsequent to the course of treatment with the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor.

The IGF 1R kinase inhibitor will typically be administered to the patient in a dose regimen that provides for the most effective treatment of the cancer from both efficacy and safety perspectives for which the patient is being treated as known in the art and as disclosed e.g. in International Patent Publication No. WO 01 34574. In conducting the treatment method of the present invention the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor can be administered in any effective manner known in the art such as by oral topical intravenous intra peritoneal intramuscular intra articular subcutaneous intranasal intra ocular vaginal rectal or intradermal routes depending upon the type of cancer being treated the type of IGF 1R kinase inhibitor being used for example small molecule antibody RNAi ribozyme or antisense construct and the medical judgement of the prescribing physician as based e.g. on the results of published clinical studies.

The amount of IGF 1R kinase inhibitor administered and the timing of IGF 1R kinase inhibitor administration will depend on the type species gender age weight etc. and condition of the patient being treated the severity of the disease or condition being treated and on the route of administration. For example small molecule IGF 1R kinase inhibitors can be administered to a patient in doses ranging from 0.001 to 100 mg kg of body weight per day or per week in single or divided doses or by continuous infusion see for example International Patent Publication No. WO 01 34574 . In particular compounds such as Compound 66 or similar compounds can be administered to a patient in doses ranging from 5 200 mg per day or 100 1600 mg per week in single or divided doses or by continuous infusion. A preferred dose is 150 mg day. Antibody based IGF 1R kinase inhibitors or antisense RNAi or ribozyme constructs can be administered to a patient in doses ranging from 0.1 to 100 mg kg of body weight per day or per week in single or divided doses or by continuous infusion. In some instances dosage levels below the lower limit of the aforesaid range may be more than adequate while in other cases still larger doses may be employed without causing any harmful side effect provided that such larger doses are first divided into several small doses for administration throughout the day.

The IGF 1R kinase inhibitors and other additional agents can be administered either separately or together by the same or different routes and in a wide variety of different dosage forms. For example the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor is preferably administered orally or parenterally. Where the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor is Compound 66 or a similar such compound oral administration is preferable. Both the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor and other additional agents can be administered in single or multiple doses.

The IGF 1R kinase inhibitor can be administered with various pharmaceutically acceptable inert carriers in the form of tablets capsules lozenges troches hard candies powders sprays creams salves suppositories jellies gels pastes lotions ointments elixirs syrups and the like. Administration of such dosage forms can be carried out in single or multiple doses. Carriers include solid diluents or fillers sterile aqueous media and various non toxic organic solvents etc. Oral pharmaceutical compositions can be suitably sweetened and or flavored.

The IGF 1R kinase inhibitor can be combined together with various pharmaceutically acceptable inert carriers in the form of sprays creams salves suppositories jellies gels pastes lotions ointments and the like. Administration of such dosage forms can be carried out in single or multiple doses. Carriers include solid diluents or fillers sterile aqueous media and various non toxic organic solvents etc.

All formulations comprising proteinaceous IGF 1R kinase inhibitors should be selected so as to avoid denaturation and or degradation and loss of biological activity of the inhibitor.

Methods of preparing pharmaceutical compositions comprising an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor are known in the art and are described e.g. in International Patent Publication No. WO 01 34574. In view of the teaching of the present invention methods of preparing pharmaceutical compositions comprising an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor will be apparent from the above cited publications and from other known references such as Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa. 18edition 1990 .

For oral administration of IGF 1R kinase inhibitors tablets containing one or both of the active agents are combined with any of various excipients such as for example micro crystalline cellulose sodium citrate calcium carbonate dicalcium phosphate and glycine along with various disintegrants such as starch and preferably corn potato or tapioca starch alginic acid and certain complex silicates together with granulation binders like polyvinyl pyrrolidone sucrose gelatin and acacia. Additionally lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate sodium lauryl sulfate and talc are often very useful for tableting purposes. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in gelatin capsules preferred materials in this connection also include lactose or milk sugar as well as high molecular weight polyethylene glycols. When aqueous suspensions and or elixirs are desired for oral administration the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor may be combined with various sweetening or flavoring agents coloring matter or dyes and if so desired emulsifying and or suspending agents as well together with such diluents as water ethanol propylene glycol glycerin and various like combinations thereof.

For parenteral administration of either or both of the active agents solutions in either sesame or peanut oil or in aqueous propylene glycol may be employed as well as sterile aqueous solutions comprising the active agent or a corresponding water soluble salt thereof. Such sterile aqueous solutions are preferably suitably buffered and are also preferably rendered isotonic e.g. with sufficient saline or glucose. These particular aqueous solutions are especially suitable for intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous and intraperitoneal injection purposes. The oily solutions are suitable for intra articular intramuscular and subcutaneous injection purposes. The preparation of all these solutions under sterile conditions is readily accomplished by standard pharmaceutical techniques well known to those skilled in the art. Any parenteral formulation selected for administration of proteinaceous IGF 1R kinase inhibitors should be selected so as to avoid denaturation and loss of biological activity of the inhibitor.

Additionally it is possible to topically administer either or both of the active agents by way of for example creams lotions jellies gels pastes ointments salves and the like in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice. For example a topical formulation comprising an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor in about 0.1 w v to about 5 w v concentration can be prepared.

For veterinary purposes the active agents can be administered separately or together to animals using any of the forms and by any of the routes described above. In a preferred embodiment the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor is administered in the form of a capsule bolus tablet liquid drench by injection or as an implant. As an alternative the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor can be administered with the animal feedstuff and for this purpose a concentrated feed additive or premix may be prepared for a normal animal feed. Such formulations are prepared in a conventional manner in accordance with standard veterinary practice.

As used herein the term IGF 1R kinase inhibitor refers to any IGF 1R kinase inhibitor that is currently known in the art or that will be identified in the future and includes any chemical entity that upon administration to a patient results in inhibition of a biological activity associated with activation of the IGF 1 receptor in the patient including any of the downstream biological effects otherwise resulting from the binding to IGF 1R of its natural ligand. Such IGF 1R kinase inhibitors include any agent that can block IGF 1R activation or any of the downstream biological effects of IGF 1R activation that are relevant to treating cancer in a patient. Such an inhibitor can act by binding directly to the intracellular domain of the receptor and inhibiting its kinase activity. Alternatively such an inhibitor can act by occupying the ligand binding site or a portion thereof of the IGF 1 receptor thereby making the receptor inaccessible to its natural ligand so that its normal biological activity is prevented or reduced. Alternatively such an inhibitor can act by modulating the dimerization of IGF 1R polypeptides or interaction of IGF 1R polypeptide with other proteins or enhance ubiquitination and endocytotic degradation of IGF 1R. An IGF 1R kinase inhibitor can also act by reducing the amount of IGF 1 available to activate IGF 1R by for example antagonizing the binding of IGF 1 to its receptor by reducing the level of IGF 1 or by promoting the association of IGF 1 with proteins other than IGF 1R such as IGF binding proteins e.g. IGFBP3 . IGF 1R kinase inhibitors include but are not limited to low molecular weight inhibitors antibodies or antibody fragments antisense constructs small inhibitory RNAs i.e. RNA interference by dsRNA RNAi and ribozymes. In a preferred embodiment the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor is a small organic molecule or an antibody that binds specifically to the human IGF 1R.

IGF 1R kinase inhibitors include for example imidazopyrazine IGF 1R kinase inhibitors quinazoline IGF 1R kinase inhibitors pyrido pyrimidine IGF 1R kinase inhibitors pyrimido pyrimidine IGF 1R kinase inhibitors pyrrolo pyrimidine IGF 1R kinase inhibitors pyrazolo pyrimidine IGF 1R kinase inhibitors phenylamino pyrimidine IGF 1R kinase inhibitors oxindole IGF 1R kinase inhibitors indolocarbazole IGF 1R kinase inhibitors phthalazine IGF 1R kinase inhibitors isoflavone IGF 1R kinase inhibitors quinalone IGF 1R kinase inhibitors and tyrphostin IGF 1R kinase inhibitors and all pharmaceutically acceptable salts and solvates of such IGF 1R kinase inhibitors.

Additional examples of IGF i R kinase inhibitors include those in International Patent Publication No. WO 05 037836 that describes imidazopyrazine IGF 1R kinase inhibitors International Patent Publication Nos. WO 03 018021 and WO 03 018022 that describe pyrimidines for treating IGF 1R related disorders International Patent Publication Nos. WO 02 102804 and WO 02 102805 that describe cyclolignans and cyclolignans as IGF 1R inhibitors International Patent Publication No. WO 02 092599 that describes pyrrolopyrimidines for the treatment of a disease which responds to an inhibition of the IGF 1R tyrosine kinase International Patent Publication No. WO 01 72751 that describes pyrrolopyrimidines as tyrosine kinase inhibitors and in International Patent Publication No. WO 00 71129 that describes pyrrolotriazine inhibitors of kinases and in International Patent Publication No. WO 97 28161 that describes pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidines and their use as tyrosine kinase inhibitors Parrizas et al. which describes tyrphostins with in vitro and in vivo IGF 1R inhibitory activity Endocrinology 138 1427 1433 1997 International Patent Publication No. WO 00 35455 that describes heteroaryl aryl ureas as IGF 1R inhibitors International Patent Publication No. WO 03 048133 that describes pyrimidine derivatives as modulators of IGF 1R International Patent Publication No. WO 03 024967 WO 03 035614 WO 03 035615 WO 03 035616 and WO 03 035619 that describe chemical compounds with inhibitory effects towards kinase proteins International Patent Publication No. WO 03 068265 that describes methods and compositions for treating hyperproliferative conditions International Patent Publication No. WO 00 17203 that describes pyrrolopyrimidines as protein kinase inhibitors Japanese Patent Publication No. JP 07 133280 that describes a cephem compound its production and antimicrobial composition Albert A. et al. 11 1540 1547 1970 which describes pteridine studies and pteridines unsubstituted in the 4 position and A. Albert et al. 44 1 5 1969 which describes a synthesis of pteridines unsubstituted in the 4 position from pyrazines via 3 4 dihydropteridines.

Specific examples of IGF 1R kinase inhibitors that can be used according to the present invention include h7C10 Centre de Recherche Pierre Fabre an IGF 1 antagonist EM 164 ImmunoGen Inc. an IGF 1R modulator CP 751871 Pfizer Inc. an IGF 1 antagonist lanreotide Ipsen an IGF 1 antagonist IGF 1R oligonucleotides Lynx Therapeutics Inc. IGF 1 oligonucleotides National Cancer Institute IGF 1R protein tyrosine kinase inhibitors in development by Novartis e.g. NVP AEW541 Garcia Echeverria C. et al. 2004 Cancer Cell 5 231 239 or NVP ADW742 Mitsiades C. S. et al. 2004 Cancer Cell 5 221 230 IGF 1R protein tyrosine kinase inhibitors Ontogen Corp AG 1024 Camirand A. et al. 2005 Breast Cancer Research 7 R570 R579 DOI 10.1186 bcr1028 Camirand A. and Pollak M. 2004 Brit. J. Cancer 90 1825 1829 Pfizer Inc. an IGF 1 antagonist the tyrphostins AG 538 and I OMe AG 538 BMS 536924 a small molecule inhibitor of IGF 1R and PNU 145156E Pharmacia Upjohn SpA an IGF 1 antagonist.

Antibody based IGF 1R kinase inhibitors include any anti IGF 1R antibody or antibody fragment that can partially or completely block IGF 1R activation by its natural ligand. Antibody based IGF 1R kinase inhibitors also include any anti IGF 1 antibody or antibody fragment that can partially or completely block IGF 1R activation. Non limiting examples of antibody based IGF 1R kinase inhibitors include those described in Larsson O. et al 2005 Brit. J. Cancer 92 2097 21 01 and Ibrahim Y. H. and Yee D. 2005 Clin. Cancer Res. 11 944s 950s or being developed by Imclone e.g. A12 or Schering Plough Research Institute e.g. 19D12 or as described in US Patent Application Publication Nos. US 2005 0136063 A1 and US 2004 0018191 A1 . The IGF 1R kinase inhibitor can be a monoclonal antibody or an antibody or antibody fragment having the binding specificity thereof.

Additional antibody based IGF 1R kinase inhibitors can be raised according to known methods by administering the appropriate antigen or epitope to a host animal selected e.g. from pigs cows horses rabbits goats sheep and mice among others. Various adjuvants known in the art can be used to enhance antibody production.

Although antibodies useful in practicing the invention can be polyclonal monoclonal antibodies are preferred. Monoclonal antibodies against IGF 1R can be prepared and isolated using any technique that provides for the production of antibody molecules by continuous cell lines in culture. Techniques for production and isolation include but are not limited to the hybridoma technique originally described by Kohler and Milstein Nature 1975 256 495 497 the human B cell hybridoma technique Kosbor et al. 1983 Immunology Today 4 72 Cote et al. 1983 Proc. Nati. Acad. Sci. USA 80 2026 2030 and the EBV hybridoma technique Cole et al 1985 Monoclonal Antibodies and Cancer Therapy Alan R. Liss Inc. pp. 77 96 .

Alternatively techniques described for the production of single chain antibodies see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 946 778 can be adapted to produce anti IGF 1R single chain antibodies. Antibody based IGF 1R kinase inhibitors useful in practicing the present invention also include anti IGF 1R antibody fragments including but not limited to F ab .sub.2 fragments which can be generated by pepsin digestion of an intact antibody molecule and Fab fragments which can be generated by reducing the disulfide bridges of the F ab .sub.2 fragments. Alternatively Fab and or scFv expression libraries can be constructed see e.g. Huse et al. 1989 Science 246 1275 1281 to allow rapid identification of fragments having the desired specificity to IGF 1R.

Techniques for the production and isolation of monoclonal antibodies and antibody fragments are well known in the art and are described in Harlow and Lane 1988 Antibodies A Laboratory Manual Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory and in J. W. Goding 1986 Monoclonal Antibodies Principles and Practice Academic Press London. Humanized anti IGF 1R antibodies and antibody fragments can also be prepared according to known techniques such as those described in Vaughn T. J. et al. 1998 Nature Biotech. 16 535 539 and references cited therein and such antibodies or fragments thereof are also useful in practicing the present invention.

IGF 1R kinase inhibitors for use in the present invention can alternatively be based on antisense oligonucleotide constructs. Anti sense oligonucleotides including anti sense RNA molecules and anti sense DNA molecules would act to directly block the translation of IGF 1R mRNA by binding thereto and thus preventing protein translation or increasing mRNA degradation thus decreasing the level of IGF 1R kinase protein and thus activity in a cell. For example antisense oligonucleotides of at least about 15 bases and complementary to unique regions of the mRNA transcript sequence encoding IGF 1R can be synthesized e.g. by conventional phosphodiester techniques and administered by e.g. intravenous injection or infusion. Methods for using antisense techniques for specifically inhibiting gene expression of genes whose sequence is known are well known in the art e.g. see U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 566 135 6 566 131 6 365 354 6 410 323 6 107 091 6 046 321 and 5 981 732 .

Small inhibitory RNAs siRNAs can also function as IGF 1R kinase inhibitors for use in the present invention. IGF 1R gene expression can be reduced by contacting the tumor subject or cell with a small double stranded RNA dsRNA or a vector or construct causing the production of a small double stranded RNA such that expression of IGF 1R is specifically inhibited i.e. RNA interference or RNAi . Methods for selecting an appropriate dsRNA or dsRNA encoding vector are well known in the art for genes whose sequence is known e.g. see Tuschi T. et al. 1999 Genes Dev. 13 24 3191 3197 Elbashir S. M. et al. 2001 Nature 411 494 498 Hannon G. J. 2002 Nature 418 244 251 McManus M. T. and Sharp P. A. 2002 Nature Reviews Genetics 3 737 747 Bremmelkamp T. R. et al. 2002 Science 296 550 553 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 573 099 and 6 506 559 and International Patent Publication Nos. WO 01 36646 WO 99 32619 and WO 01 68836 .

Ribozymes can also function as IGF 1R kinase inhibitors for use in the present invention. Ribozymes are enzymatic RNA molecules capable of catalyzing the specific cleavage of RNA. The mechanism of ribozyme action involves sequence specific hybridization of the ribozyme molecule to complementary target RNA followed by endonucleolytic cleavage. Engineered hairpin or hammerhead motif ribozyme molecules that specifically and efficiently catalyze endonucleolytic cleavage of IGF 1R mRNA sequences are thereby useful within the scope of the present invention. Specific ribozyme cleavage sites within any potential RNA target are initially identified by scanning the target molecule for ribozyme cleavage sites which typically include the following sequences GUA GUU and GUC. Once identified short RNA sequences of between about 15 and 20 ribonucleotides corresponding to the region of the target gene containing the cleavage site can be evaluated for predicted structural features such as secondary structure that can render the oligonucleotide sequence unsuitable. The suitability of candidate targets can also be evaluated by testing their accessibility to hybridization with complementary oligonucleotides using e.g. ribonuclease protection assays.

Both antisense oligonucleotides and ribozymes useful as IGF 1R kinase inhibitors can be prepared by known methods. These include techniques for chemical synthesis such as e.g. by solid phase phosphoramadite chemical synthesis. Alternatively anti sense RNA molecules can be generated by in vitro or in vivo transcription of DNA sequences encoding the RNA molecule. Such DNA sequences can be incorporated into a wide variety of vectors that incorporate suitable RNA polymerase promoters such as the T7 or SP6 polymerase promoters. Various modifications to the oligonucleotides of the invention can be introduced as a means of increasing intracellular stability and half life. Possible modifications include but are not limited to the addition of flanking sequences of ribonucleotides or deoxyribonucleotides to the 5 and or 3 ends of the molecule or the use of phosphorothioate or 2 O methyl rather than phosphodiesterase linkages within the oligonucleotide backbone.

In the context of the methods of treatment of this invention IGF 1R kinase inhibitors are used as a composition comprised of a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and a non toxic therapeutically effective amount of an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor compound including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof .

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to salts prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic bases or acids. When a compound of the present invention is acidic its corresponding salt can be conveniently prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic bases including inorganic bases and organic bases. Salts derived from such inorganic bases include aluminum ammonium calcium copper cupric and cuprous ferric ferrous lithium magnesium manganese manganic and manganous potassium sodium zinc and the like salts. Particularly preferred are the ammonium calcium magnesium potassium and sodium salts. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic non toxic bases include salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines as well as cyclic amines and substituted amines such as naturally occurring and synthesized substituted amines. Other pharmaceutically acceptable organic non toxic bases from which salts can be formed include ion exchange resins such as for example arginine betaine caffeine choline N N dibenzylethylenediamine diethylamine 2 diethylaminoethanol 2 dimethylaminoethanol ethanolamine ethylenediamine N ethylmorpholine N ethylpiperidine glucamine glucosamine histidine hydrabamine isopropylamine lysine methylglucamine morpholine piperazine piperidine polyamine resins procaine purines theobromine triethylameine trimethylamine tripropylamine tromethamine and the like.

When a compound used in the present invention is basic its corresponding salt can be conveniently prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acids including inorganic and organic acids. Such acids include for example acetic benzenesulfonic benzoic camphorsulfonic citric ethanesulfonic fumaric gluconic glutamic hydrobromic hydrochloric isethionic lactic maleic malic mandelic methanesulfonic mucic nitric pamoic pantothenic phosphoric succinic sulfuric tartaric p toluenesulfonic acid and the like. Particularly preferred are citric hydrobromic hydrochloric maleic phosphoric sulfuric and tartaric acids.

Pharmaceutical compositions used in the present invention comprising an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor compound including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof as active ingredient can include a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and optionally other therapeutic ingredients or adjuvants. Other therapeutic agents may include those cytotoxic chemotherapeutic or anti cancer agents or agents which enhance the effects of such agents as listed above. The compositions include compositions suitable for oral rectal topical and parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular and intravenous administration although the most suitable route in any given case will depend on the particular host and nature and severity of the conditions for which the active ingredient is being administered. The pharmaceutical compositions may be conveniently presented in unit dosage form and prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy.

In practice the IGF 1R kinase inhibitor compounds including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof of this invention can be combined as the active ingredient in intimate admixture with a pharmaceutical carrier according to conventional pharmaceutical compounding techniques. The carrier may take a wide variety of forms depending on the form of preparation desired for administration e.g. oral or parenteral including intravenous . Thus the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can be presented as discrete units suitable for oral administration such as capsules cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of the active ingredient. Further the compositions can be presented as a powder as granules as a solution as a suspension in an aqueous liquid as a non aqueous liquid as an oil in water emulsion or as a water in oil liquid emulsion. In addition to the common dosage forms set out above an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor compound including pharmaceutically acceptable salts of each component thereof may also be administered by controlled release means and or delivery devices. The combination compositions may be prepared by any of the methods of pharmacy. In general such methods include a step of bringing into association the active ingredients with the carrier that constitutes one or more necessary ingredients. In general the compositions are prepared by uniformly and intimately admixing the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both. The product can then be conveniently shaped into the desired presentation.

An IGF 1R kinase inhibitor compound including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof used in this invention can also be included in pharmaceutical compositions in combination with one or more other therapeutically active compounds. Other therapeutically active compounds may include those cytotoxic chemotherapeutic or anti cancer agents or agents which enhance the effects of such agents as listed above.

Thus in one embodiment of this invention the pharmaceutical composition can comprise an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor compound in combination with an anticancer agent wherein said anti cancer agent is a member selected from the group consisting of alkylating drugs antimetabolites microtubule inhibitors podophyllotoxins antibiotics nitrosoureas hormone therapies kinase inhibitors activators of tumor cell apoptosis and antiangiogenic agents.

The pharmaceutical carrier employed can be for example a solid liquid or gas. Examples of solid carriers include lactose terra alba sucrose talc gelatin agar pectin acacia magnesium stearate and stearic acid. Examples of liquid carriers are sugar syrup peanut oil olive oil and water. Examples of gaseous carriers include carbon dioxide and nitrogen.

In preparing the compositions for oral dosage form any convenient pharmaceutical media may be employed. For example water glycols oils alcohols flavoring agents preservatives coloring agents and the like may be used to form oral liquid preparations such as suspensions elixirs and solutions while carriers such as starches sugars microcrystalline cellulose diluents granulating agents lubricants binders disintegrating agents and the like may be used to form oral solid preparations such as powders capsules and tablets. Because of their ease of administration tablets and capsules are the preferred oral dosage units whereby solid pharmaceutical carriers are employed. Optionally tablets may be coated by standard aqueous or nonaqueous techniques.

A tablet containing the composition used fot this invention may be prepared by compression or molding optionally with one or more accessory ingredients or adjuvants. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder lubricant inert diluent surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered compound moistened with an inert liquid diluent. Each tablet preferably contains from about 0.05 mg to about 5 g of the active ingredient and each cachet or capsule preferably contains from about 0.05 mg to about 5 g of the active ingredient.

For example a formulation intended for the oral administration to humans may contain from about 0.5 mg to about 5 g of active agent compounded with an appropriate and convenient amount of carrier material that may vary from about 5 to about 95 percent of the total composition. Unit dosage forms will generally contain between from about 1 mg to about 2 g of the active ingredient typically 25 mg 50 mg 100 mg 200 mg 300 mg 400 mg 500 mg 600 mg 800 mg or 1000 mg.

Pharmaceutical compositions used in the present invention suitable for parenteral administration may be prepared as solutions or suspensions of the active compounds in water. A suitable surfactant can be included such as for example hydroxypropylcellulose. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol liquid polyethylene glycols and mixtures thereof in oils. Further a preservative can be included to prevent the detrimental growth of microorganisms.

Pharmaceutical compositions used in the present invention suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions. Furthermore the compositions can be in the form of sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of such sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. In all cases the final injectable form must be sterile and must be effectively fluid for easy syringability. The pharmaceutical compositions must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage thus preferably should be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing for example water ethanol polyol e.g. glycerol propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol vegetable oils and suitable mixtures thereof.

Pharmaceutical compositions for the present invention can be in a form suitable for topical sue such as for example an aerosol cream ointment lotion dusting powder or the like. Further the compositions can be in a form suitable for use in transdermal devices. These formulations may be prepared utilizing an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor compound including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof via conventional processing methods. As an example a cream or ointment is prepared by admixing hydrophilic material and water together with about 5 wt to about 10 wt of the compound to produce a cream or ointment having a desired consistency.

Pharmaceutical compositions for this invention can be in a form suitable for rectal administration wherein the carrier is a solid. It is preferable that the mixture forms unit dose suppositories. Suitable carriers include cocoa butter and other materials commonly used in the art. The suppositories may be conveniently formed by first admixing the composition with the softened or melted carrier s followed by chilling and shaping in molds.

In addition to the aforementioned carrier ingredients the pharmaceutical formulations described above may include as appropriate one or more additional carrier ingredients such as diluents buffers flavoring agents binders surface active agents thickeners lubricants preservatives including anti oxidants and the like. Furthermore other adjuvants can be included to render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient. Compositions containing an IGF 1R kinase inhibitor compound including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may also be prepared in powder or liquid concentrate form.

Dosage levels for the compounds used for practicing this invention will be approximately as described herein or as described in the art for these compounds. It is understood however that the specific dose level for any particular patient will depend upon a variety of factors including the age body weight general health sex diet time of administration route of administration rate of excretion drug combination and the severity of the particular disease undergoing therapy.

Many alternative experimental methods known in the art may be successfully substituted for those specifically described herein in the practice of this invention as for example described in many of the excellent manuals and textbooks available in the areas of technology relevant to this invention e.g. Using Antibodies A Laboratory Manual edited by Harlow E. and Lane D. 1999 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press e.g. ISBN 0 87969 544 7 Roe B. A. et. al. 1996 DNA Isolation and Sequencing Essential Techniques Series John Wiley Sons. e.g. ISBN 0 471 97324 0 Methods in Enzymology Chimeric Genes and Proteins 2000 ed. J. Abelson M. Simon S. Emr J. Thomer. Academic Press Molecular Cloning a Laboratory Manual 2001 3Edition by Joseph Sambrook and Peter MacCallum the former Maniatis Cloning manual e.g. ISBN 0 87969 577 3 Current Protocols in Molecular Biology Ed. Fred M. Ausubel et. al. John Wiley Sons e.g. ISBN 0 471 50338 X Current Protocols in Protein Science Ed. John E. Coligan John Wiley Sons e.g. ISBN 0471 11184 8 and Methods in Enzymology Guide to protein Purification 1990 Vol. 182 Ed. Deutscher M. P. Acedemic Press Inc. e.g. ISBN 0 12 213585 7 or as described in the many university and commercial websites devoted to describing experimental methods in molecular biology.

This invention will be better understood from the Experimental Details that follow. However one skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the specific methods and results discussed are merely illustrative of the invention as described more fully in the claims which follow thereafter and are not to be considered in any way limited thereto.

Inhibitors of IGF 1 receptor function have shown clinical utility and the definition of key IGF 1 receptor signaling pathways which describe patient subsets most likely to benefit from therapy has become an important area of investigation. The ability of tumor cells to maintain growth and survival signals in the absence of adhesion to extracellular matrix or cell cell contacts is important not only in the context of cell migration and metastasis but also in maintaining cell proliferation and survival in wound like tumor environments where extracellular matrix is being remodeled and cell contact inhibition is diminished. Here we demonstrate that sensitivity of NSCLC cells to IGF 1 receptor inhibition is conferred by an E cadherin epithelial cell phenotype. Conversely insensitivity to IGF 1 receptor inhibition was mediated through an epithelial mesenchymal transition EMT associated with the expression of vimentin and or fibronectin.

The NSCLC lines with IGF 1R H292 H358 H322 H441 A549 Calu6 H460 H1703 and SW1573 were cultured in the appropriate ATCC recommended supplemented media. Cell extracts were prepared by detergent lysis 50mM Tris HCl pH8 150 mM NaCl 1 NP 40 0.5 NaDeoxycholate 0.1 SDS containing protease and phosphatase inhibitors. The soluble protein concentration was determined by micro BSA assay Pierce Rockford Ill. .

IGF 1R inhibitor Compound 66 stock concentration was 10 mM in 100 DMSO dimethyl sulfoxide . Serial dilutions 1 3 or 1 4 were used to establish the 50 inhibitory dose of IGF 1R inhibitor. Before dosing inhibitor was diluted in 100 DMSO and then added to the cells at desired final concentrations in duplicates. The final DMSO concentration was between 0.3 0.5 .

Protein immunodetection was performed by electrophoretic transfer of SDS PAGE separated proteins to nitrocellulose incubation with antibody and chemiluminescent second step detection PicoWest Pierce Rockford Ill. . The antibodies included E Cadherin Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. sc21791 catenin sc9988 catenin sc7963 catenin sc8415 and Brk sc1188 Vimentin BD Biosciences San Jose Calif. BD550513 and Fibronectin BD610077 GAPDH AbCam Cambridge UK Phospho Akt Cell Signaling Beverly Mass. 9271 Akt CS 9272 Phospho p44 42 Map kinase Erk1 2 CS 9101 Phospho Src family CS 2101 Phospho STAT3 CS 9131 and Phospho S6 CS 2211 actin Sigma Saint Louis Mo. A5441 . Antibodies further included Phospho Shc Cell Signaling 2434 Beverly Mass. Phospho Paxillin Cell Signaling 2541 Phospho Akt Ser473 and Thr308 Cell Signaling 9271 and 9275 Phospho HER2 ErbB2 Cell Signaling 2245 Phospho Her3 Tyr1289 Cell Signaling 4791 Phospho p44 42 Map kinase Cell Signaling 9101 Phospho EGFR Tyr845 Cell Signaling 2231 Phospho EGFR Tyr992 Cell Signaling 2235 Phospho EGFR Tyr1045 Cell Signaling 2237 EGFR Cell Signaling 2232 Phospho p70 S6 kinase Cell Signaling 9205 Phospho GSK 3alpha beta Cell Signaling 9331 Phospho EGFR Tyr1068 Cell Signaling 2236 Phospho Src family Tyr416 Cell Signaling 2101 phospho SAPK JNK Thr183 Tyr185 Cell Signaling 9251 phospho STAT3 Tyr705 Cell Signaling 9131 ErbB2 Cell Signaling 2242 ErbB4 Cell Signaling 4795 PY20 Exalpha Biologicals Inc. Brk Santa Cruz Biochemicals .

For measuring cell viability Cell Titer Glo assay was used which is available as a kit from Promega. The basis of the assay is a luminescent quantitation of ATP present in a cell culture plate well. In essence the greater the number of viable cells in the well the greater the level of ATP present. The assay utilizes a substrate that binds ATP to produce a luminescent signal which can be read on a luminometer. Unless otherwise noted the manufacturers instructions were followed exactly. Briefly on Day 1 cells were plated in 120 l of 10 serum containing growth media at a density of 4000 cells well in a white polystyrene 96 well assay plate. On day 2 cells were treated with 15 l of 10 concentration of the IGF 1R inhibitor Compound 66 or DMSO alone for a final well volume of 150 l. After 72 h incubation with the inhibitor the cells were assayed. Results were calculated as a fraction of the DMSO controlled cells.

Female CD 1 nu nu mice Charles River Laboratories were implanted with harvested NSCLC tumor cells in a single subcutaneous site on the flank of the mice in the axillary region. Tumors were allowed to grow to 200 50 mm. Tumor volumes and body weights were determined twice weekly. The tumor volume was determined by measuring in two directions with vernier calipers and calculated using the formula Tumor volume length width 2. Tumors from animals were harvested and snap frozen in liquid nitrogen.

Analysis of Compound 66 sensitivity in a range of human NSCLC cell Lines indicated a wide range of sensitivity. We have thus broadly classified these cell lines into those that are relatively insensitive SW1573 and H460 those which show an intermediate sensitivity A549 and those which are sensitive H441 H358 and H292 to Compound 66 mediated growth inhibition. Thus a range of sensitivities of the cells to Compound 66 was observed ranging from the most sensitive H358 through the least sensitive SW1573 .

Changes in Epithelial and Mesenchymal Cell Markers Correlate with Sensitivity of NSCLC Cell Lines to Compound 66

We observed a striking difference between the Compound 66 sensitive and relatively insensitive NSCLC lines in the abnormal expression vimentin and or fibronectin . Typically vimentin and fibronectin expression are characteristic of mesenchymal cells and are only weakly or unexpressed in epithelial cell lineages. Vimentin expression was primarily found in SW1573 H1703 and Calu6 while fibronectin expression was observed in H460 cells. SW1573 cells were relatively insensitive to growth inhibition by Compound 66 in vitro with less than 10 inhibition at 10 M inhibitor. Little or no vimentin or fibronectin expression was found in the Compound 66 sensitive NSCLC lines H292 H441 and H358 or the intermediately sensitive line A549.

Based on the expression of mesenchymal proteins in NSCLC lines relatively insensitive to Compound 66 we analyzed protein extracts from the same panel of relatively insensitive and sensitive NSCLC cell lines for the presence or absence of markers characteristic of either epithelial or mesenchymal phenotypes . Strikingly E cadherin was detected in the sensitive cell lines H441 H358 and H292 but was absent in the relatively insensitive cell lines SW1573 and H460 . The intermediately sensitive cell line A549 showed low but detectable expression. A similar loss of catenin was observed in cells relatively insensitive to Compound 66 with the exception of H460. Therefore the relatively insensitive cell lines appear to have lost expression of epithelial cell marker proteins. Next we asked whether these cell lines expressed the mesenchymal markers fibronectin and or vimentin. The relatively insensitive cell lines clearly expressed either one or both of fibronectin and vimentin whereas neither protein was detectable in cell lines sensitive to Compound 66. Interestingly the intermediately sensitive cell line A549 again showed low but detectable levels of both proteins. However confocal microcopy experiments results not shown using immunostaining with antibodies specific for E cadherin and vimentin indicated that the A549 cell culture used appears to be a mixed population of cells since no dual staining of cells was observed. This could also explain the somewhat variable results obtained with this cell line and is consistent with its intermediate sensitivity to Compound 66.

Compound 66 Sensitivity Correlates with Maintenance of Epithelial Markers During Tumor Growth in vivo

We wished to examine whether the protein markers predictive of Compound 66 sensitivity identified in vitro were also observable in vivo. Protein extracts were prepared from 3 independent tumor xenografts grown from H460 Calu6 A549 H441 and H292 cells. Immunoblotting of extracts indicated that E cadherin was not detectably expressed in the xenografts derived from the H460 cells that are relatively insensitive to Compound 66 was expressed at low levels in xenografts derived from the A549 cells of intermediate sensitivity and expressed at high levels in the H441 and H292 cell lines that are sensitive to Compound 66 . A similar result was observed on analysis of catenin levels. In contrast xenograft samples derived from H460 expressed fibronectin alone a result consistent with that obtained from in vitro cell cultures . H441 and H292 derived xenograft extracts showed little or no expression of either fibronectin or vimentin. These in vivo results further support the in vitro data and indicate that the presence of these protein markers is not an artifact of cell culture. Further they support the hypothesis that Compound 66 sensitivity may be restricted to cells with an epithelial phenotype and that cells which have undergone EMT become less dependent upon IGF 1R signaling for cell proliferation and survival.

Expression of Brk in NSCLC Cell Lines that are Relatively Insensitive or Sensitive to IGF 1 Receptor Inhibition

Interestingly there is a very good correlation between Brk levels and Compound 66 sensitivity in so far as high Brk expression equates to higher Compound 66 sensitivity and absence or lower expression of Brk tends to characterize insensitive lines.

The loss of E cadherin expression and the acquisition of a more mesenchymal phenotype has been shown to correlate with poor prognosis in multiple epithelial derived solid tumors. The loss of E cadherin and to a lesser extent catenin and Brk correlated with cellular insensitivity to IGF 1 receptor inhibition. Conversely the cellular acquisition of mesenchymal markers vimentin fibronectin or fibrillin correlates with a loss of sensitivity to IGF 1 receptor inhibitors. We clearly show that a partial or complete epithelial to mesenchymal transition negatively impacts cellular responses to IGF 1 receptor inhibitors and serves as a diagnostic for patients most likely to benefit from IGF 1 receptor kinase inhibitors and anti IGF 1 receptor antibody therapies.

EGF epidermal growth factor EMT epithelial to mesenchymal transition NSCLC non small cell lung carcinoma HNSCC head and neck squamous cell carcinoma CRC colorectal cancer MBC metastatic breast cancer EGFR epidermal growth factor receptor Brk Breast tumor kinase also known as protein tyrosine kinase 6 PTK6 LC liquid chromatography MS mass spectrometry IGF 1 insulin like growth factor 1 IGF 1R or IGFR insulin like growth factor 1 receptor TGF transforming growth factor alpha HB EGF heparin binding epidermal growth factor LPA lysophosphatidic acid TGF transforming growth factor alpha IC half maximal inhibitory concentration pY phosphotyrosine wt wild type PI3K phosphatidyl inositol 3 kinase GAPDH Glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase.

All patents published patent applications and other references disclosed herein are hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference.

Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to specific embodiments of the invention described specifically herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed in the scope of the following claims.

