---

title: Computerized procedures system
abstract: An online data driven computerized procedures system that guides an operator through a complex process facility's operating procedures. The system monitors plant data, processes the data and then, based upon this processing, presents the status of the current procedure step and/or substep to the operator. The system supports multiple users and a single procedure definition supports several interface formats that can be tailored to the individual user. Layered security controls access privileges and revisions are version controlled. The procedures run on a server that is platform independent of the user workstations that the server interfaces with and the user interface supports diverse procedural views.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07813817&OS=07813817&RS=07813817
owner: Westinghouse Electric Co LLC
number: 07813817
owner_city: Cranberry Township
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061020
---
This application claims the priority of Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 747 714 filed May 19 2006 entitled A DYNAMICALLY DRIVEN COMPUTERIZED OPERATING PROCEDURES SYSTEM .

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. DE FC07 051D14636 awarded by the United States Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention is directed to a method and apparatus for aiding an operator in executing step by step procedures during the operation of a complex process facility such as a nuclear power plant. More particularly this invention involves a computer based system which incorporates plant data and interactive plant operator responses in a client server environment in which the procedure document and authorization databases as well as the sensor monitoring procedure evaluator and procedure state management software modules are maintained on the server and the outputted information is formatted at any one of a number of client workstations independently of each other.

As large process facilities become more complex the burden placed on the operator to assimilate large amounts of data evaluate the status of the process and various components and systems from those data and take informed decisive action based upon such evaluations becomes greater. In view of the complexity of the process it is not unlikely that there may be any number of individuals managing or auditing the process to assure its safe operation. Such a complex process facility is a nuclear power generation plant.

Due to concern for public safety and to the significance of nuclear power generation to the world there has been a steadily increasing emphasis on the need to operate nuclear power plants safely and reliably. To satisfy this need written procedures have been developed to guide the operator in controlling the power plant. However many of these procedures are difficult for the operator to manage in a purely paper format because they require him to continuously monitor and comprehend numerous plant conditions over an extended period of time.

Several attempts have been made to alleviate this problem. One such attempt has resulted in the safety parameter display system covered by U.S. Pat. No. 4 552 718. This system generates meaningful information for the operator of a pressurized water reactor PWR on six critical safety functions which must be maintained or reestablished if lost during emergency operation. The system uses a status tree approach to generate automatically or through manual responses by an operator a visual indication of the current status of all six critical safety functions. This system is used in conjunction with the paper procedures to alert the operator who is absorbed in the steps of the particular emergency procedure to the overall condition of the plant. While the status tree system advises the operator of any threats to the critical safety functions and suggests a procedure to be followed the operator must still locate the recommended procedure in the paper procedures and then follow it manually step by step. The status tree system also does not keep the operator apprised of other plant conditions which the paper procedures require to be monitored but which do not directly affect the critical safety functions.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 803 039 issued Feb. 7 1989 is directed to a computer based system which both assesses the plant data and provides guidance in light of pre defined procedures. In this system current plant data are used by the computer to trace a path through the logic of appropriate procedure steps in order to identify a recommended course of action. The course of action along with related data is displayed for the operator on one or more electronic display devices. The computer then uses the plant data and the operator s interactive response to proceed to the next appropriate procedure step. In addition the computer simultaneously monitors certain functions which must normally be continuously monitored by the operator. If a problem becomes apparent in any of these functions the operator is alerted and appropriate actions are displayed. In this manner the operator is relieved of the duty of continually gathering and assessing large amounts of data as required by the purely paper form of the procedures. This frees the operator to concentrate on operating the plant in a safe manner when hazardous conditions are not present and to alleviate potential emergency situations when hazardous conditions exist.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 068 080 took such computerized procedure systems one step further enabling them to recognize successive changes in the monitored systems state and compare those changes with a preprogrammed sequence of operations and draw the operators attention to any undesirable deviations. U.S. Pat. No. 5 553 304 furthered the evolution of these systems moving away from hard coded software systems to the use of a relational database. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 881 115 and 7 085 607 further advanced the state of the art in enabling the operator to absorb more data about the steps of the process and the current and historical conditions of the process while providing an overview of plant operation in a manner the operators could easily assimilate.

As these processes further evolved and the process controls developed to be more sophisticated it became advisable to have more people involved in the control and monitoring of the process conditions such as the developers and other experts in addition to the plant operators. It is not practical to expect all of these people to be available at the plant on a continuous basis. Therefore it is preferable that these individuals be able to monitor the plant remotely and desirably in their native languages. Therefore there is a need to further evolve computer based procedures management systems to improve the safe operation of such complex processes.

Accordingly it is the object of this invention to provide a computerized procedure system that runs on a secure server with the operator and other users having remote access through workstations at their own resident locations.

It is an additional object of this invention to provide a computerized procedure system that has a server that can communicate with multiple workstations having different operating system platforms.

Furthermore it is an object of this invention to provide such a system wherein the workstation operator or other user has the capability to format the data presented on the corresponding workstation in a selected language and format that is independent of the language and format that the same information is being displayed simultaneously on other workstations at the same or other locations.

It is a further object of this invention to have each workstation s access to the server be fully secured and coordinated.

These and other objects are realized by the apparatus of this invention for online computer assisted execution by a human operator of procedures for a complex process facility in which the steps of a selected procedure stored in the computer memory are sequentially presented to the operator on a display device. A plurality of sensors for generating sensor signals representative of the real time value of a plurality of the process facility s parameters that indicate various conditions of the process are communicated over a network to a server. The server has one or more databases which store the procedures related documents and authorization information. The server also houses one or more software modules that monitor the data from the sensors evaluate the procedures with respect to the monitored data and determine the state of the procedures. The server also maintains an active log of the commands or resources requested from remote workstations where the operator and other users access selected information on the network. The server output to the workstations is communicated over a network and comprises the text and structure of the procedure as well as associated logic and metadata and the workstation defines the format in which the server output is presented to the operator or other user. The sequencing of the computerized procedure system is very similar to that set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 7 085 607 however this invention further improves how those steps are processed and displayed to provide the information in a manner that is tailored independently to multiple operators and other users in a manner that they can most easily absorb e.g. in their own diverse languages.

In particular the computerized procedure system senses the starting conditions for automatic execution of given steps of the procedures so that when satisfied the procedure is initiated automatically. Stop conditions for automatically stopping a procedure are also established. The operator also has the option of executing the procedures manually.

Some of the procedural steps generate control signals which result in modification of process conditions. Such control signals can be automatically generated by a procedure which is running automatically. Some procedures call for verification that the control signal has been effective before advancing to the next step. In some instances this may take some time. If the condition is not satisfied the step is violated and the automatic sequencing will terminate requiring operator intervention. A suitable time delay can be provided to allow the command signal to take effect so that the process may continue automatically. Time delays can also be programmed into any of the steps of the procedure so that the operator may follow the sequence of steps during automatic execution.

Preferably the server has a separate procedure database for storing one or more step by step procedures for operating the process under various conditions a document database for storing documents that contain background and amplification for the procedural steps stored in the procedure database and an authorization database for storing user names passwords and security access levels of the operators and other users authorized to access the server. Furthermore preferably some of the computer software modules on the server include a data monitor module for receiving interpreting and processing the sensor signals a procedure evaluator module for receiving the interpreted and processed sensor signals from the data monitor module and determining whether the entry conditions for entering a procedure have been satisfied a procedure state manager module for evaluating the interpreted and processed sensor signals received from the procedure evaluator module and determining the step in one or more of the procedures from the procedure database applicable to the conditions of the process indicated by the sensor signals and sequencing the applicable procedure further and a request handler module for managing and satisfying access and information requests from one or more computer workstations by drawing on the output of the server procedure state manager module the document database and the authorization database to provide server output to the one or more workstations.

Desirably the client and server are platform i.e. operating system independent and a client on any platform can communicate with the server on any platform. Preferably the procedure steps are stored in a plurality of languages and can be displayed on separate workstations respectively in different languages. The workstation determines the language in which the applicable steps of the procedure are displayed. The operator or other user also controls the format in diverse views of the information that is displayed on the workstation. The operator and other users access to the server is determined by a pre authorized level of security assigned so that only selected information or selected actions may be permitted for any given user.

In one preferred embodiment an operator or user may be authorized to edit the procedures. In such case each accepted change or series of changes in the procedures is uniquely identified and prior versions archived.

In another preferred embodiment a backup server running the same software and having the same databases runs in parallel with the main server and assumes control of the system if the first server goes down. Still in another embodiment the apparatus of this invention includes a logger that records and stores the time the workstation address the operator or other user and the command or other resource requested. In addition the logger may record a detailed and time stamped log of all procedure activations and step transitions including specific data values of entry conditions for each procedure activated and data values for each step when the step is exited. Thus the computerized procedure system of this invention operates in a secure redundant server environment and is capable of being accessed by the operator or other users in a manner that satisfies their individual needs to best comprehend the status of process conditions.

The computerized procedures system of this invention is a data driven software based dynamic system that guides operators through plant operating procedures. It monitors plant data processes the data and then based on this processing identifies the applicable procedure and presents the status of the procedure steps to the operator. For the AP1000 advanced passive nuclear power generating plant designed by Westinghouse Electric Company LLC the computerized procedures system of this invention will be used for normal operating procedures abnormal operating procedures and emergency operating procedures.

The system provides a consistent structure within which plant operating procedures are created maintained and utilized. It will permit a reduction in the cycle time needed to implement changes in the operating procedures because each procedure will reside within the computerized system as a single file format.

The computerized procedures system of this invention combines the textural procedure information synergistically with the plant data required to determine the status of the steps and then processes that data to give the operator the status of the steps. Hence it provides the answers to the procedure questions . Additionally the system provides singe click links to support graphical displays and documentation that the operator may wish to view during procedure execution. The system makes an important contribution to the improved effectiveness of plant procedure execution by providing for multiple user support. There is no arbitrary limit to the number of users simultaneously accessing the system with per user privileges and access rights on different client workstations with different layers of security.

The computerized system of this invention embodies a unique user interface that supports diverse procedure views e.g. interactive graphical flowchart view formatted text view and dynamic logic view all at the same time on a single display screen.

The text of the procedures and background and supporting documents that may be used for reference are stored in multiple languages and may be displayed on different client workstations in different languages. The state of the procedure system is independent of whether client workstations are currently running or not. The server handles authentication and authorization approval of the operator or other users. The server can control all the way from totally blocking a connection to allowing unlimited access on a per user basis. For example a user may be provided with read only privileges if the user s sole reason for accessing the computerized procedures system is to monitor the state of the procedures. Additionally specific actions and information can be access controlled by the server on a per user basis on a document by document or procedure by procedure degree. The client software on a workstations connects to a server and gets all plant data system status and other related information from the server. The client software on the workstations is dedicated to interfacing with the server in carrying out the tasks of the computerized procedures system of this invention though it should be appreciated that the workstations may simultaneously run other software and receive and communicate other information that may be related or totally unrelated to the procedures processed by the system of this invention. All state information originates in the server that the authorized users control from the client workstations through requests for specific procedures or actions. The procedure document from the server contains the text and structure of the procedure as well as associated logic and metadata. From that single procedure document the client builds the flowchart text and logic panes for the procedure. Individual users can configure many display options such as fonts colors panel sizes etc. Options are saved between sessions. The presentation of the procedures and procedure related information is controlled by the client on the workstations . For example the server sends the client the abstract structural descriptions of the logic trees along with the associated text decision logic and current values for nodes but it is the client workstations that uses that abstract information to build the displays of the trees. The server has no knowledge of screen layout colors shapes fonts etc.

The server has two main processing tasks. The first is to evaluate pertinent plant data supplied by the sensors through the client instrumentation and control network . The second is to process client requests that are made through the client workstations and communicated over the application network to the request handler . When the server first starts or is reset it loads the procedure definitions from the procedure database and finds those with entry conditions as determined by the procedure evaluator . A procedure can become active by having its entry conditions satisfied or by a user action through the client workstations . When a procedure becomes active the server monitors the plant data for the current step along with related parallel information through the procedure state manager . A procedure can be inactive i.e. not running monitored i.e. running automatically while being monitored active i.e. running under the step by step direction of an operator idle i.e. waiting for data that indicates the preconditions for the next step to be taken has been satisfied or done i.e. cycled through its full complement of steps. All data has an epoch based time stamp for synchronization and network efficiency.

When the client starts up the workstations it connects to the server which authenticates the session. The client requests state information from the server through the state control software module and request generator and builds its display through the display generator based on the system state and user preferences obtained from the local preference memory saved during the last session. At regular intervals the client workstations ask the server for any new information which keeps all the clients synchronized. A change initiated from one client workstation will quickly display on all other connected client workstations .

Under the user s control the client workstation requests specific procedures. The procedure document from the server contains the text and structure of the procedure as well as associated logic and metadata. From that single procedure document the client builds the flowchart text and logic panes for the procedure. If the server is monitoring data for a procedure the client asks for updates to that data at regular intervals.

The procedure display that is projected on the video display unit is illustrated in . There are three main panes in the procedure display i.e. flowchart text and logic all synchronized to show different views of the same thing. The flowchart shows an overview of the procedure s structure and flow with a focus on the current step . There is text in each box that summarizes the step. The text in each box can be expanded upon by hovering the cursor over the appropriate box. Most if not all of the outlined areas on the display are context sensitive in that when relevant to a particular step outlined areas will be available and active and hovering over them will open text that further explains the outlined area s function. The user can click on any node to set the focus and or navigate through the flowchart. Hovering navigating actively highlighting moving the cursor or pressing the mouse can all be used to display text. The flowchart display is automatically scaled to fit the width of the panel. The steps that are satisfied are shown in the lower right corner of each box on the left hand side of the flow chart display with a green check while those that are violated are shown with the red X in the same location. The text display is shown in the upper right region of the display and shows the full text of the current step formatted to look like the paper version. RNO which stands for Response Not Obtained is indented instead of being set out in a separate column. The RNO identifies an alternative step that needs to be taken if the expected response to the previous step is not obtained. The active or focused node in this case is highlighted. The context sensitive navigation buttons are either shown with dark print and outlining or are grayed out depending whether they are applicable to the particular step highlighted. In this case step has no RNO or GOTO navigation command applicable. However if the step was highlighted the RNO and GOTO navigation buttons would be shown as active. The logic portion of the display is shown in the lower right portion of the screen and displays the logic for the current step i.e. the logic for the active focus node highlighted. Checks and X s respectively show true false conditions for the logic conditions specified. Values of variables along with an indication of the quality of the data are shown in square brackets. The user controls the font size and color. The buttons in the upper right header of the display when activated will provide information on the entry conditions for the procedure a copy of the specific procedure document background documents that may help the user better understand the procedure and graphics which are relevant to the current step of the procedure that is highlighted.

When the CSF trees tab is selected the screen transfers to the display illustrated in . CSF stands for Critical Safety Function which displays a logic tree for six separate critical functions that are constantly monitored regardless of the other procedures being followed to assure plant safety. The six critical functions are sub criticality i.e. to assure that the fissionable reactions within the core are being maintained below that which would create a sustained chain reaction as measured by the in core and ex core neutron detectors core cooling i.e. the exit temperature of the reactor coolant as measured by the in core thermocouples heat sink i.e. the level of the steam generator secondary feed water as measured by the feed water level sensors integrity i.e. the pressure in the primary side of the plant as measured by the reactor coolant system pressure sensors containment condition i.e. the temperature pressure humidity etc. of the environment in the containment as measured by local sensors and coolant inventory i.e. the level of coolant within the core as measured by pressurizer coolant level as shown in . In the upper left corner of the CSF trees display below the tabs are six buttons one for displaying the logic tree for each of the Critical Safety Functions. Each button has an icon on its left representative of the state of the Critical Safety Function CSF that it represents. Solid red would indicate the most serious state while solid green would indicate normal operation with shades in between indicating gradients of states from worst to best. The CSF tab also has an icon on the extreme left that indicates the most serious state among the six Critical Safety Functions however the operator cannot tell which function is in the most serious state without opening the window illustrated in by clicking on the CSF tab . The icon for the highest priority CSF comes up first when the tab for the CSF trees is actuated. The trees are identical to the paper version of the procedures with added highlighting of the current path. The operator can navigate to the procedure from the corresponding terminus shown on the far right of the display. The relevant CSF trees display takes priority over the display shown in if the corresponding critical safety function indicates an emergency condition. The CSF tree displays are themselves prioritized in order in which the buttons are listed in .

If the entry conditions button shown in is actuated a pop up box like the one illustrated in is displayed showing the entry conditions for the corresponding procedure. In other words the pop up box shown in displays the conditions that must be met to enter in this case procedure E step of which was highlighted in . The checks and X s in the boxes on the left of show whether the conditions have been met and the actual values for the monitored parameters are shown in brackets. The brackets also show the quality of the data with the O within the brackets of the low pressurizer pressure condition indicating that the corresponding pressure sensors are OFF SCAN and the data within the brackets is old data. Typically the sensor output signals are scanned once a second to update the data readings unless they are taken off line or for some other reason stop transmitting. The F within the brackets under the Low Pressurizer Level label means the data is of fair quality. P would stand for poor quality B would stand for bad quality and no quality indication means the data is good. Once a condition is met and the corresponding procedure is entered the entry condition display stops updating and provides a record of what caused entry to the procedure.

If the procedure list tab is actuated the procedure directory illustrated in is displayed showing all available procedures. The list is sortable by columns and can be searched within each column. The directory shows the state of each procedure the operator that entered and is operating the procedure the step the procedure is in and the entry condition which was the reason for the procedure being activated. The user has the ability to filter the list e.g. only have the active procedures showing to aid the user in monitoring the list.

The computerized procedure system server supports an editor client for creating and modifying the procedures. The procedure can be viewed in the editor as it will be seen in the runtime client. The procedure is contained in one file that includes the text structure logic and metadata. The stored procedures contain the combined information for multiple methods of display along with the logic for evaluating the state of the process. From the stored procedure the system can generate a paper printout build the client displays and evaluate the state of the plant in relationship to the procedure. As previously mentioned the text can be in multiple languages. The main unit in the procedure is a step which may include substeps RNOs notes and cautions all of which can be edited.

All requests to a server from a client are logged. Each log entry contains at least the time the client address the user and the command or resource requested. A more detailed log is kept of active procedures. A detailed and time stamped log is kept of all procedure activations and step transitions. The specific data values of the entry conditions are logged and the data values for each step are logged when the step is exited. All of this information is available at the workstations of authorized users.

Thus the computerized procedure system embodies a unique user interface that supports diverse procedure views e.g. interactive graphical flowchart view formatted text view and dynamic logic view that presents a wealth of information to the operators and those monitoring the process in a manner that can be easily assimilated. While specific embodiments of the invention have been described in detail it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications and alternatives to those details could be developed in light of the overall teachings of the disclosure. For example it should be appreciated that the term database has been used in describing the preferred embodiment in a very general sense as a collection of data or other information organized for rapid search and retrieval and should not be construed as limited to any particular database format. Accordingly the particular embodiments disclosed are meant to be illustrative only and not limiting as to the scope of the invention which is to be given the full breath of the appended claims and any and all equivalents thereof.

