---

title: Systems and methods for providing trading exclusivity/priority in response to quantity of items traded in electronic trading systems
abstract: Systems and methods for providing trading exclusivity/priority in response to quantity of items traded in electronic trading systems is provided. The method preferably includes receiving an incoming order for the item and determining whether the incoming order matches a current order for the item and satisfies a minimum volume requirement. When the incoming order matches a current order for the item and satisfies a minimum volume requirement, the method includes transacting a trade between the incoming order and the current order and providing a predetermined time period of exclusive trading between a participant associated with the incoming order and a participant associated with the current order.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07761366&OS=07761366&RS=07761366
owner: BGC Partners, Inc.
number: 07761366
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060109
---
The present invention relates to electronic systems and methods for obtaining priority and or exclusivity in electronic trading systems.

One important component of electronic trading systems is order priority. Order priority is the mechanism by which systems determine which orders are matched first second etc. To facilitate orderly and market efficient transactions electronic trading systems may establish rules or combinations of rules to determine which buyers and which sellers can trade with each other at a given time.

Priority rules may be based on both price time or other suitable criteria. Typically buyers and sellers place bids and offers for a defined class of traded goods. Each trading participant may place a bid or offer at a select price and volume. Priority may be awarded to the best or highest bid price from a trading participant who wants to buy the traded good as well as to the best or lowest offer price from a trading participant who wants to sell the traded good. If multiple competing orders are resident in the system at the same price then priority may be awarded to the earliest in time order among the competing orders. As such a queue or stack of bids and offers develops in price and time order.

In some trading systems once the queue forms trading may begin only by an affirmative action on the part of a trading participant. This is sometimes knows as hit i.e. an acceptance of a pending bid and lift or take i.e. an acceptance of a pending offer trading. In hit and lift trading the trading participant who takes affirmative action to enact a trade i.e. he either hits a bid or lifts an offer may be known as the active participant. The trading participant whose bid was hit or whose offer was lifted may be known as a passive participant. The first of such active and passive trading participants in line to trade may be referred to herein as current participants. The current participants may trade while the other participants remain queued up in the stack below waiting to trade.

During some types of hit and lift trading initial exclusivity may be awarded to the first trading participant that actively hit a bid or lifted an offer and to the first passive participant on the contra side of the trade. These trading participants may therefore transact trades further between each other and then subsequently with more contra counterparties before other participants on their same side who did not initially act affirmatively to trade or may not have participated passively on the contra side of the trade respectively.

In some embodiments of hit and lift trading once a trade has been transacted the current participants may be allowed exclusivity to trade additional volume for a predetermined time period or some other suitable time period. A hit and lift system that includes the ability for current participants to transact additional volume once an initial trade has been transacted is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 6 560 580 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The additional time period grants the current participants preferably a predetermined time limited exclusivity and allows the current participants at least one period of time to trade exclusively at that price.

After the current trading participants who have initial exclusivity are finished or alternatively done trading trading may continue down the stack in price and time order or priority . Price and time priority trading rewards priority to same price orders that are submitted earliest in time.

Order exclusivity may be defined for purposes of this application as the exclusive or semi exclusive right of certain participants to trade on orders in an electronic trading system. As described above order exclusivity is granted to certain participants. Order exclusivity may be granted to traders in certain trading states based on certain criteria. For the purposes of this application a trading state is defined as a set of rules or conditions that govern the interaction between trading participants.

It would be desirable to provide systems and methods that further define the rules or conditions that govern the awarding of priority exclusivity to trading participants.

It would be desirable to provide systems and methods that further define the rules or conditions that govern the awarding of priority exclusivity to trading participants.

Systems and methods for providing trading exclusivity priority in response to quantity of items traded in electronic trading systems is provided. The method preferably includes receiving an incoming order for the item and determining whether the incoming order matches a current order for the item and satisfies a minimum volume requirement. When the incoming order matches a current order for the item and satisfies a minimum volume requirement the method includes transacting a trade between the incoming order and the current order and providing a predetermined time period of exclusive trading between a participant associated with the incoming order and a participant associated with the current order.

One of the main concepts relating to the systems and methods of the invention is rewarding the displayed intention to trade a certain minimum quantity of an item with the opportunity for exclusivity in trading. System and methods according to the invention preferably require a minimum displayed quantity to be eligible for certain exclusivity in trading privileges. Passive and active trade requests that meet the minimum quantity requirement may be eligible for trading exclusivity and or last buyer seller privileges. According to such systems and methods all other requests are preferably not to be awarded any exclusivity to workup a trade and will not qualify for rights associated with being the last buyer seller in a particular trade.

In any particular trading platform the quantity for exclusivity rules which may be alternatively understood under certain trading conditions such as conditions that award priority to the last buyer seller in a trade when the trading platform transitions from one trade state to another trade state to be quantity for priority rules such as the priority rules described in co pending patent application entitled Systems and Methods for Establishing First on the Follow Trading Priority in Electronic Trading Systems filed on even date herewith which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety may be selectively enabled for particular products and or particular time periods during the day. Furthermore certain selectable minimum quantities may vary from product to product.

In one exemplary application quantity for priority rules may be in effect for an electronic trading platform s US Treasuries product during the New York trading session. Thus in one embodiment of the invention between the hours of 7 00 am EST and 5 30 pm EST the following minimum display quantities are required to be eligible to qualify for priority 

One embodiment of quantity for priority trading rules operate as follows To be awarded priority the trader who initiates a trade should preferably lift hit the total quantity on the screen and request at least the minimum quantity level required for that particular security. If the trader initiates a trade for less than the greater of the quantity shown on the screen or the minimum quantity in the corresponding US Treasury Benchmarks he will not be awarded any exclusivity. These two requirements preferably form one set of rules according to the invention.

It follows from this that resting markets bid offers resident in the system should preferably be displayed for at least the minimum quantity required in the corresponding US Treasury Benchmark to be eligible for exclusivity.

As stated above in one embodiment of the invention traders can continue to type as they do today. However if they prefer traders can change their Bid Buy and Offer Sell default size the term size used herein to refer to volume of the item being traded trade settings in instrument settings to match the minimum size requirement in the corresponding US Treasury Benchmark to insure that they will receive priority where possible.

In one embodiment of the invention a method includes receiving an incoming order for the item and determining whether the incoming order matches a current order for the item and satisfies a minimum volume requirement. When the incoming order matches a current order for the item and satisfies a minimum volume requirement the method preferably transacts a trade between the incoming order and the current order and provides a predetermined time period of exclusive trading between a participant associated with the incoming order and a participant associated with the current order. This exclusive time period preferably follows the transacting of the volume of the item shown in the current order.

In one alternative embodiment of the invention the minimum volume requirement that qualifies a participant for exclusive trading may be dynamic. For example the minimum volume requirement may be set to be a function of time of day volatility of trading or some other suitable variable. Thus the minimum volume requirement for obtaining exclusivity may change in response to different stimuli.

In an alternate aspect of the invention the passive order or in some embodiments the active order if it is displayed on the screen prior to the matching with the passive order should display an amount that satisfies a minimum threshold in order for a trade that matches the passive order to obtain exclusive trading privileges.

In some embodiments of the invention a trading participant which may be any broker dealer customer or application programming interface that uses the system for trading may want to set his default trading settings in order to insure that he obtains exclusivity for his trades unless he specifies otherwise. For such a participant he may set the minimum threshold trading requirement for obtaining exclusivity as his default minimum trading amount.

In another alternative embodiment of the invention an individual who is associated with a group of other participants such as a trading desk or other trading location may be allowed to obtain exclusive rights of trading based on the aggregated daily volume of the group of participants e.g. when the aggregated daily volume surpasses a threshold amount instead of the volume of a single trade. It should be noted that in this embodiment as well as in other certain described embodiments of this application one or both of the trade participants may be entitled to exclusivity. Where the case occurs that one of the trade participants is entitled to exclusivity then the other participant may be replaced by a third participant in a manner such that the rules allow to participate exclusively. Thus only one of the two trade participants may be entitled to the exclusivity.

In yet another embodiment of the invention an individual s daily trading activity e.g. daily trading volume may be used to determined whether the individual is entitled to rights of trading exclusively. Similarly the right to trade exclusively may depend on a participant s most recent trading history i.e. the rights to trade exclusively may depend on the history of a trade in which the participant is presently involved.

The following is an exemplary trade according to the invention with respect to the immediately preceding implementation 

With respect to yet another embodiment of the invention hidden size i.e. a portion of the order that is not shown to the rest of the participants but if acted upon is tradable may also count toward satisfying the minimum volume requirement of the order to qualify for exclusive trading privileges.

Referring to exemplary system for implementing the present invention is shown. As illustrated system may include one or more workstations . Workstations may be local or remote and are connected by one or more communications links to computer network that is linked via communications links to server . Server is linked via communications link to back office clearing center .

In system server may be any suitable server processor computer or data processing device or combination of the same. Server and back office clearing center may form part of the electronic trading system. Furthermore server may also contain an electronic trading system and application programming interface and merely transmit a Graphical User Interface or other display screens to the user at the user workstation or the Graphical User Interface may reside on Workstation .

Computer network may be any suitable computer network including the Internet an intranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a wireless network a digital subscriber line DSL network a frame relay network an asynchronous transfer mode ATM network a virtual private network VPN or any combination of any of the same. Communications links and may be any communications links suitable for communicating data between workstations and server such as network links dial up links wireless links hard wired links etc.

Workstations may be personal computers laptop computers mainframe computers dumb terminals data displays Internet browsers Personal Digital Assistants PDAs two way pagers wireless terminals portable telephones programmed computers having memory the programmed computer using the memory for implementing trading models etc. or any combination of the same. Workstations may be used to implement the electronic trading system application and application programming interface according to the invention.

Back office clearing center may be any suitable equipment such as a computer a laptop computer a mainframe computer etc. or any combination of the same for causing transactions to be cleared and or verifying that transactions are cleared. Communications link may be any communications links suitable for communicating data between server and back office clearing center such as network links dial up links wireless links hard wired links etc.

The server the back office clearing center and one of the workstations which are depicted in are illustrated in more detail in . Referring to workstation may include processor display input device and memory which may be interconnected. In a preferred embodiment memory contains a storage device for storing a workstation program for controlling processor . The storage device may include software stored on a suitable storage medium such as a disk. Memory also preferably contains an electronic trading system application according to the invention.

Electronic trading system application may preferably include application program interface or alternatively as described above electronic trading system application may be resident in the memory of server . In this embodiment the electronic trading system may contain application program interface as a discrete application from the electronic trading system application which also may be included therein. The only distribution to the user may then be a Graphical User Interface which allows the user to interact with electronic trading system application resident at server .

Processor uses the workstation program to present on display electronic trading system application information relating to market conditions received through communication link and trading commands and values transmitted by a user of workstation . Furthermore input device may be used to manually enter commands and values in order for these commands and values to be communicated to the electronic trading system.

When the system determines that the trade occurred in the predetermined time window the system queries whether the trade satisfies minimum volume requirements in order to enable trade participants to obtain exclusive trading privileges . When the system determines that the minimum volume requirement has been satisfied trade participants are awarded exclusive trading privileges for some predetermined period of time as shown in step . When the system determines that the minimum volume requirement has not been satisified the electronic trading system returns to the previous state where no party possesses exclusive rights to trade e.g. a bid offer state as described in the 580 patent as shown in step .

Thus systems and method for defining criteria for limiting exclusive priority in electronic trading systems to circumstances in which a predetermined minimum quantity is displayed or acted upon have been provided. It will be understood that the foregoing is only illustrative of the principles of the invention and that various modifications can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

