---

title: Plasma torch for ignition, flameholding and enhancement of combustion in high speed flows
abstract: Preheating of fuel and injection into a plasma torch plume fro adjacent the plasma torch plume provides for only ignition with reduced delay but improved fuel-air mixing and fuel atomization as well as combustion reaction enhancement. Heat exchange also reduced erosion of the anode of the plasma torch. Fuel mixing atomization, fuel mixture distribution enhancement and combustion reaction enhancement are improved by unsteady plasma torch energization, integral formation of the heat exchanger, fuel injection nozzle and plasma torch anode in a more compact, low-profile arrangement which is not intrusive on a highspeed air flow with which the invention is particularly effective and further enhanced by use of nitrogen as a feedstock material and inclusion of high pressure gases in the fuel to cause effervescence during injection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07571598&OS=07571598&RS=07571598
owner: Virginia Tech Intellectual Properties, Inc.
number: 07571598
owner_city: Blacksburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060518
---
This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60 682 424 filed May 19 2005 which is hereby fully incorporated by reference.

This invention was federally funded under NASA grant NAG 1 02108. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention generally relates to jet engines and other applications including combustion in an environment of high speed gas flow and more particularly to so called scramjets ramjets and jet engine afterburners.

Efficient and reliable operation of supersonic combustion ramjet scramjet engines and ramjet engines which operate similarly but with sub sonic flow regimes and other applications needing combustion in high speed flow regimes such as jet engine afterburners relies on rapid and predictable mixing of fuel with ambient air reliable ignition and flameholding and enhancement of the combustion reaction. Ignition and flameholding is particularly difficult at flow velocity regimes approaching and above the speed of sound. Depending on the fuel choice and flight speed different ignition arrangements including cavities or ramps which are well known geometries for protection for an ignition source and pyrophoric compounds have been used for ignition and flameholding. Similarly shock waves and other flow anomalies within an engine at such flow velocity regimes have held the degree of mixing of fuel and air and or other combustion gases whether ambient or applied to the engine in the manner of a fuel hereinafter referred to simply as fuel mixing to levels presumably much less than optimum. Upstream fuel injection is generally considered to be required in order to provide time for atomization and mixing of the fuel in a high speed gas flow prior to ignition but which is very limited due to restrictions on size of an engine usable in a practical aircraft. That is at supersonic flow rates fuel injected upstream from the igniting arrangement will reach and pass the igniting arrangement in a very short time well before mixing and atomization which increases surface and reaction area of fuel droplets has taken place to an optimum degree since the fuel injection and ignition locations must necessarily be less than the engine length which in turn must necessarily be no greater than the aircraft length. Additionally there appears to be a trade off with the distance of the fuel injection point in advance of the igniter which affects mixing and atomization and the likelihood of the fuel reliably reaching the igniter. Therefore optimization of the combustion reaction especially for wide range operation is difficult.

Moreover all three of these requirements are currently addressed by separate mechanisms or arrangements each of which has tended to be bulky and of significant weight contrary to what is desirable in an aircraft engine. Thus attempts to improve the efficiency of any of them in regard to their function generally tends to increase bulk weight or both while yielding only marginal improvements in engine performance.

Use of an electric plasma torch for ignition and flameholding is known. However simply using a plasma torch as an ignition source does not mitigate the problems of obtaining good fuel mixing or combustion enhancement. Further in such a system as with ramps cavities and pyrophoric compounds use of known plasma torches is not significantly controllable to regulate the performance of the combustion system. Further difficulties and delays in achieving ignition due to insufficient atomization and mixing presents a substantial safety hazard. Additionally approaches to improvement of ignition atomization mixing and combustion enhancement known in the art have required structures which intrude into the high speed air flow causing further disturbances and shock waves that may disrupt for example uniformity of fuel distribution which often tends to follow the wavefronts of shock waves .

While these and other problem are particularly significant in scramjet engines they also appear to greater or lesser degrees in other applications for developing high temperature and stable ignition in a high velocity flow regime such as jet afterburners or ramjets where the flow is subsonic and treatment or refinement of bulk materials as is industrial processes depending on a flow of heated air .

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a simple robust and reliable arrangement for ignition and flameholding in high velocity flow regimes which also improves fuel mixing and enhances the combustion reaction while being of reduced size and weight. It is another object of the invention to provide a structure in which ignition can be achieved with reduced delay.

In order to accomplish these and other objects of the invention the basic invention provides a plasma torch with a fuel injector and heat exchanger which may be retrofitted to existing plasma torches or integrated in a new design either of which provides improved fuel mixing and atomization and improved optimization of the combustion reaction as well as providing improved and controllable ignition and flame holding. Other aspects of the invention may be provided as perfecting features of the basic invention or inventive features which may be retrofitted to known plasma torch structures and which improve the performance thereof. More specifically a combined plasma torch igniter mixer combustion reaction enhancer and a jet engine including the same are provided wherein the igniter mixer combustion reaction enhancer comprises a plasma torch including an anode an capable of producing a plasma plume a heat exchanger for preheating fuel and cooling said anode a nozzle for injecting preheated fuel into the plasma plume from a location adjacent the plasma plume and an arrangement for passing feedstock material adjacent the anode.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to there is shown a cross sectional schematic view of a duct having a high velocity gas flow therein and the basic elements of a scramjet or ramjet engine or jet engine afterburner with which the invention may be employed. Duct is illustrated for generality and would have a more complex internal shape for either of the above applications as represented by schematically illustrated ramps cavities . On the other hand a straight walled duct may in fact be preferred for some applications such as a large scale heat source for heat driven process applications. The source of the high velocity gas flow is not important to the principles of the invention or its successful practice as long as the flow is such that the gas flow is compressed e.g. by a compressor a constriction and or viscous drag at ramps cavities which also tend to direct expanding gases from ignition to the right as illustrated at a position within the duct where principal ignition is to take place. Such internal duct shaping and the resulting compression generally slows air flow by a significant amount but the flow velocity remains significant and may be several times the speed of sound in scramjet engines in which the flow velocity may be reduced for example from the range of Mach 4 6 to about Mach 2.

A plasma torch in some forms suitable to cause ignition is a quite familiar device which has an anode and a cathode which are separated and have a voltage applied between them. Then by increasing proximity or voltage such as by superimposing a high frequency signal on the applied voltage or a combination of the two an arc is struck between the anode and cathode and produces ionization in the adjacent e.g. feedstock gases forming a very hot plasma plume of high temperature charged and neutral particles that may ignite other materials adjacent or directed into the plume. The arc may be made periodic as in an automobile spark plug or so called pilot less ignition sources for stoves or furnaces or continuous as is required in the case of jet engines where combustion is continuous and continuous ignition is required to maintain it. The plasma torch is also familiar in the metal working arts e.g. for welding or brazing where the anode and cathode are generally arranged symmetrically such that when an arc is truck the plasma of excited charged and neutral particles form a characteristic luminescent plume generally referred to as pressureless since the gas in the plume may the turbulent but is not significantly accelerated in a shape generally resembling the shape of a fish sometimes referred to as a whale with points of the tail terminating at the anode and cathode. This general shape of the plasma plume is not critical to the practice of the invention and is in fact altered from the plume of a plasma torch used in metal working but awareness of the plume and its characteristic shape will be helpful in understanding the following discussion of the invention and its practice.

Returning to a injector for injecting a small amount of fuel is provided upstream of the plasma torch igniter as is considered necessary to accommodate the high velocity gas flow in duct . However in some cases the injector can be combined with the igniter. The distance between the fuel injector and the igniter may be more or less critical to the functions of ignition flameholding and combustion enhancement as alluded to above since increase of the distance may marginally improve fuel mixing and atomization while increasing the difficulty of directing a sufficient amount of the injected fuel to the igniter or assuring such direction will reliably occur . The fuel injector may be recessed into the duct walls sometimes referred to as a cavity as shown to marginally improve flameholding and to avoid intrusion into the flow .

Assuming that fuel mixed with gas reaches the igniter it will generally ignite if mixing and atomization is sufficient but not necessarily optimal causing a flame which can be used to ignite fuel injected by main fuel injectors . When the main fuel is ignited very high temperature and partially ionized gas is produced and is expelled from the duct the mass and acceleration of the expelled gases producing thrust particularly where ramps cavities are present to assist in directing the accelerated and expanding gases at exhaust port which may also be constricted for improved gas acceleration . Exhaust port may be and for jet engines preferably is constricted by a nozzle to constrict and thus pressurize and accelerate exhaust gases to increase available thrust.

A first aspect of the invention will now be discussed with reference to . As alluded to above the key to application of a plasma torch in supersonic combustion is the interaction of the torch plume with the combustible mixture. Among flow effects favoring good combustion for both liquid and gaseous fuels are atomization in the case of liquid fuels and rapid mixing of the fuel and air to form the desired combustible mixture. In previous reported work with plasma torches in supersonic combustion the power supply to the torch has been steady in time and use of the plasma torch plume as an atomizer for liquid hydrocarbon fuels has not been explored.

Further it should be noted that under certain circumstances hydrocarbon based fuels provide superior cruising range performance as compared with hydrogen based fuels. However some problems with hydrocarbon based fuel engines have remained substantially intractable. Among these problems are the relatively long ignition delay times present with hydrocarbons and the necessity of rapid atomization mixing and ignition. The first aspect of the invention will be described in connection with an atomizer igniter anode provided as a modification of a well known anode structure. The inventors have realized that preheating a liquid fuel prior to ignition would have a positive effect on combustion. Fuel preheating is a useful and practical way to reduce the fuel evaporation time. Furthermore an increase in temperature reduces the viscosity and surface tension of the fuel leading to better atomization e.g. reduced initial drop sizes and therefore a further decrease in the evaporation time. Preheating also raises the reactant mixture to a higher initial mean temperature reducing the time required for a chemical reaction to occur.

In accordance with this aspect of the invention a heat exchanger is provided by winding a fuel injection tube tightly around the anode such that fuel exits the fuel supply tube adjacent the plasma torch plume. Copper is preferred for the anode body for excellent electrical conductivity resistance to erosion using most feed stock materials and thermal conductivity. The heat exchanger is also formed of copper tube for much the same reasons. For proof of concept testing the upstanding end of the heat exchanger coil as illustrated in was plugged but is still effective to capture a small but effective amount of heat from the combustion process . The coil portion of the heat exchanger serves to capture heat from and reduce temperature of the anode body which helps to address the problem of anode erosion leading to longer anode life and greater plasma torch reliability. It should be appreciated that in operation both of these sources of heat serve to heat the fuel regeneratively.

Again for proof of concept testing the extended end of the heat exchanger was plugged and a small hole not visible in or B but schematically illustrated in was drilled into the inside of the heat exchanger coil and the anode body allowing a jet of fuel to be injected at an angle an to pass directly into the plasma torch plume and or discharge of plasma torch feedstock a material such as nitrogen or any other suitable feedstock gas supplied to the plasma torch in order to increase the quantity and possibly energy of the plasma in the plasma torch plume . It is preferred to use an insert for ease of replacement. Fuel is preferably injected at a pressure of about 20 70 psi to provide a suitable or desired feedstock material flow rate.

This arrangement takes advantage of the relative velocities of the already existing high temperature feedstock gas produced by the plasma torch igniter and the supersonic stream of air and forms a type of fluid blast or fluid assist atomizing mechanism. More specifically this design could be considered as an external mixing fluid assist atomizer as the high velocity feedstock gas impinges on the liquid fuel stream but is combined with a robust igniter in accordance with the invention. However with respect to the atomizing action it is more accurately considered as a plain orifice pressure atomizer acting in combination with an external mixing fluid assist atomizer yielding a type of hybrid atomizer with two separate modes of atomization. In the first mode the pressure difference across the orifice acts to impart kinetic energy to the liquid stream. In the second mode the kinetic energy of the atomizing gas is used to shatter the stream or droplets of fuel.

In photographs of combustion of JP 7 jet fuel and kerosene are respectively shown. Since the plasma torch is operated energized as may be discerned by the characteristic fish shaped plume of the plasma torch in this case the fuel is in fact heated and ignited. Ignition occurs to the left side of each photograph while the atomized fuel is seen as a luminous cone of extremely fine droplets as it mixes with air. Injection occurs from below the plasma torch plum and proceeds upward and to the left. Shortly after fuel injection the sonic gas stream impinges upon the fuel jet scattering it into a spray of very fine droplets. the region of interaction appears as the bright bulbous portion on the right side of the images. The light scattering and reflection due to the droplets is an indicator of the region of atomization and not the operation of the torch plume alone which would be much smaller but of the same characteristic shape as shown in .

To summarize the invention to this point in this description with reference to the plasma torch is operated to produce a plasma torch plume derived from the feedstock material stream. The fuel mixture is regeneratively heated by heat exchange from the plasma torch which assists in reducing erosion of the plasma torch particularly the anode while a heated fuel stream is injected at an angle into the plasma torch plume the fuel temperature the liquid fuel jet breakup as it emerges from nozzle hole and the impingement of the fuel greatly on the feedstock material stream and plasma plume greatly improving atomization and mixing over atomization and mixing previously obtained from upstream injection and which is not necessary in accordance with the invention. Since the distance traveled by the fuel stream before impinging of the plasma torch plume can now be very small e.g. about one half the diameter of the plasma torch anode in accordance with the invention problems and trade offs previously encountered with upstream fuel injection are entirely avoided. Thus the invention allows the igniter structure to function simultaneously as an atomizer mixer fuel preheater and anode body cooler yielding substantially improved performance of the plasma torch and its individual constituent parts at essentially no system cost. Moreover the delay from energization and injection of fuel to the point of ignition is greatly shortened largely by virtue of the improved atomization and fuel mixing provided by the combination of the anode orifice heating of the fuel and the highly energetic states of the ionized species in the ionized feedstock gas flow increasing safety and reliability of the engine or the like since it avoids excess fuel injection and accumulation prior to ignition which can cause a substantially explosive reaction when ignition occurs.

In regard to a second aspect of the invention it has been experimentally shown that the power applied to the injector igniter has little effect on the flame resulting from ignition. Powers as low as 850 W have been successfully used. However it has been found that an unsteady level of energization e.g. where the power is rapidly modulated of the atomizer igniter can also augment the atomization function described above. Without wishing to be held to any particular theory of operation such an unsteady energization of the igniter with or without the preheater plasma torch plume atomizer described above the oscillation of applied power appears to locate and break up internal shock positions and reduce combustion instabilities by generating additional shock waves which are projected into the ignited supersonic flow because of unsteady or oscillating combustion and acoustic waves.

Such an unsteady energization so denominated since it is the variation and approximate frequency thereof which seems to be of primary importance rather than the particulars of the variation was for purposes of proof of concept experiments provided by energizing the igniter at 260V with an oscillating current level between about 15 and 80 Amps. A short burst of high frequency was provided to initiate the electric arc as is well understood in the art. A programmable function generator was used with a current source in the form of a welder power supply which provides a wide range of voltages frequencies and waveforms which can be used to modulate the current control of the welder. Of course many variations of a suitable power source will be evident to those skilled in the art. The resulting variation in the plasma torch plume is shown in the photographs of corresponding to five cycles of the current and voltage waveforms shown in . It has been found that the unsteady energization is insensitive to frequencies below about 1.0 KHz and to waveforms and improved regularity of fuel distribution as well as atomization and mixing have been observed for sinusoidal triangular and rectangular waveforms from 2 Hz to 4100 Hz and the torch oscillation causing movement of the shock system has been experimentally documented.

An exemplary system for developing unsteady energization is illustrated in . An oscillatory control provides a voltage of a desired waveform which oscillates at a variable frequency and is provided to control welder power supply . The output of the welder power supply thus controls the current of the electric arc which will exhibit its own characteristic resistance inductance and capacitance which will vary with the condition of the arc as illustrated at . These electrical parameters may be directly or indirectly measured as illustrated at . The points at which the waveforms of are also indicated in .

Thus it is seen that the provision of an unsteady energization which to the knowledge of the inventors has not been previously studied can provide an unexpected improvement in virtually all functions of an igniter whether in accordance with the invention as described above or the prior art. Since shock waves which would adversely affect the distribution of the fuel mixture are broken up but the unsteady energization and wavefronts deriving therefrom while the variable motion of the energetic particles in the plasma torch plume augmented by the feedstock gas also tends to cause a mixing and further atomization action and evaporation in the fuel mixture.

In accordance with a third aspect of the invention the efficacy of a heat exchanger retrofit onto a known igniter anode as discussed above to achieved improved fuel atomization and mixing can be improved by a design of the igniter as illustrated in . In this design the heat exchanger is formed integrally with the plasma torch and derives increased efficiency of operation by reducing the thermal resistance from the anode to the heat exchanger and from the reaction to the heat exchanger. Therefore this design will perform regenerative heating as well as anode cooling more efficiently and is more easily manufactured.

More specifically in the sectional views of the fuel port and the internal cooling e.g. heat exchange passages are formed as grooves on the exterior of the anode body and completed by the interior surface of the aluminum insert fitted thereover. The fuel injection orifice can be drilled in the anode body to intersect with any portion of an annular termination of groove . The cathode and feedstock connections may be simply attached to the anode body by a threaded coupling or the like. Thus the anode injector portion of the plasma torch can be fabricated f only two easily machined parts while lending itself to having a low profile and non intrusive shape of low volume and weight.

A fourth aspect of the invention involves an unexpected discovery by the inventors. It was noted that numerous feedstock materials can be used with the plasma torch in accordance with the invention as described above. It is much preferred that some feedstock material be used and in addition to the gases mentioned above e.g. hydrogen and nitrogen hydrocarbon materials and the like can also be used. As alluded to above nitrogen gas was often used as a matter of safety as a feedstock since normal molecular nitrogen is very stable and substantially inert and thus can prevent unwanted ignition or explosions. However it has been found by the inventors that using nitrogen as a feedstock gas provides excellent performance in achieving and maintaining ignition and in fact causes rapid and reliable spontaneous ignition when impinged on properly atomized and mixed fuel mixtures. The same general effects have been observed while using air for the feedstock material since air is a good source of nitrogen and oxygen. However it has also been found that the oxygen content of air greatly increases anode erosion. Nevertheless use of air may be desired for initial ignition where more heat would be useful or for particularly high altitude applications where the nitrogen content of air is relatively increased while oxygen content is much reduced. Therefore an embodiment of the invention using air for a feedstock gas may provide advantages in ceratin operational circumstances.

In accordance with a fifth aspect with the invention which may be used alone or in combination with and of the perfecting features described above in connection with the second through fourth aspect of the invention the inventors have found that yet further improvements in atomization and mixing and thus enhancement of combustion can be achieved by introducing a high pressure gas into the fluid stream such that the gas expands vigorously spontaneously within the fuel when released e.g. through a nozzle . Flames produced by fuels with and without such high pressure gases are shown in where it can be readily seen that the flame produced where gas is introduced into the fuel is more vigorous larger and of higher temperature particularly as shown in all of which tend to enhance combustion. It is believed that such gases when released will thus effectively effervesce and provide an early start to the atomization and mixing process. Virtually any gas will produce this effect to a greater or lesser degree but nitrogen is currently preferred.

In view of the foregoing it is seen that the combination of a fuel injector with a plasma torch igniter such that fuel is injected into the plasma torch plume after regenerative heat exchange with the fuel improves the useful lifetime of the plasma torch anode which providing improved fuel atomization and air fuel mixing and distribution. the aspect perfecting feature of unsteady energization of the plasma torch breaks up the shock system existing near the igniter injector and improves fuel distribution while further enhancing atomization and fuel mixing. The heat exchanger of the plasma torch igniter injector may be made more mechanically robust and improved in efficiency and function by integral formation of the heat exchanger and injector with the plasma torch in a novel design. The use of nitrogen as a feedstock material in combination with the improved fuel mixing heating and atomization provides spontaneous and improved ignition in the plasma torch plume and the combustion reaction may be yet further enhanced by providing gases in the liquid fuel to develop effervescence when the fuel is injected. These perfecting features may be used singly or in any combination with the igniter mixer combustion reaction enhancer of the invention or with known plasma torch igniters.

While the invention has been described in terms of a single preferred embodiment and perfecting features thereof those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. In particular additional liquid fuel streams can be added which will be ignited by contact with the original atomized and ignited fuel combustion.

