---

title: Skew slit collimator and method of use thereof
abstract: A skew slit collimator for a gamma ray imaging device and a method of configuring the skew slit collimator for a gamma ray imaging device is disclosed. The gamma ray imaging device includes a detector having a generally planar detector surface. The detector surface is operable to be positioned adjacent a subject imaging region. The skew slit collimator includes a first collimator blade having a first slit and a second collimator blade having a second slit. The first collimator blade is disposed in front of and generally parallel to the detector surface. The second collimator blade is disposed between the first collimator blade and the detector surface. The second collimator is generally parallel to and spaced apart from the first collimator blade. The second collimator blade is oriented with respect to the first collimator blade such that the lengthwise orientation of the second slit is generally orthogonal to a lengthwise orientation of the first slit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07388207&OS=07388207&RS=07388207
owner: University of Utah Research Foundation
number: 07388207
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060328
---
This invention was made with government support under grants number EB001489 and EB003298 awarded by National Institutes of Health. The United States government has certain rights to this invention.

The present invention relates generally to a gamma ray imaging device and more particularly to a skew slit collimator for a gamma ray imaging device and a method of use thereof.

The emergence of new animal models that mimic human disorders has enabled innovative fundamental and therapeutic approaches to medical research. Mice rats and guinea pigs have become ubiquitous participants in most areas of molecular biology toxicology and drug discovery research. Well characterized models have been developed to enable the study of a wide range of diseases and offer the possibility of studying the fundamental mechanisms of such diseases as well as provide opportunities to test the effectiveness of potential drugs. As a result there has been an increase in demand for effective imaging technologies especially those directed to in vivo small animal imaging. Effective small animal imaging provides keen insights into human physiology and disease processes. For example such information is particularly important in the area of gene therapy where an imaging system can be used to assess the success of vector delivery and obtain accurate time curves of gene expression. Effective in vivo imaging technologies may also help researchers expedite pre clinical drug development processes potentially saving numerous years and thousands of dollars on drugs that may ultimately not prove to be efficacious and or safe.

Single photon emission computed tomography SPECT and photon emission tomography PET are nuclear imaging procedures that can be used to perform in vivo small animal imaging. High resolution SPECT systems are commonly used in tracer development and pre clinical research where new radiopharmaceuticals have to be tested and evaluated in small animal studies. The fundamental principle underlying nuclear imaging is the use of agents which localize in specific organs or tissue on the basis of their biochemical or physiological properties. Typically one or more radiopharmaceuticals or radioisotopes are injected into the subject bloodstream. The injected radiopharmaceuticals are absorbed by and accumulate in the selectively targeted subject organ. The accumulated radiopharmaceuticals emit energy in the form of gamma rays or photons that illuminate the target organ. A nuclear imaging system such as for example a SPECT imaging system is used to create an image of the distribution of the accumulated radioactive pharmaceutical within the target organ within the subject.

Nuclear imaging is performed using a gamma ray imaging device that consists of a gamma ray detector and a collimator. One or more gamma ray imaging devices are typically placed adjacent to a surface of the subject to monitor and record the radiation emitted by the target organ. The gamma rays emitted by the target organ are collimated or sorted by the collimator and recorded by the gamma detector.

Each gamma ray detector typically includes a scintillation crystal which produces a flash or scintillation of light each time it is struck by radiation emanating from the radioactive dye in the subject. An array of photomultiplier tubes and associated circuitry produces an output signal which is indicative of the x y position of each scintillation on the crystal. The one or more gamma ray imaging devices are typically are rotated or indexed around the subject to monitor the emitted radiation from a plurality of different angles to obtain multiple two dimensional images of the subject target organ. The collected two dimensional images are used to compute or reconstruct a three dimensional volumetric representation of the target organ.

The computed tomographic images reveal physiology and cellular metabolism. With the use of specific radiotracers radio imaging techniques can provide various forms of metabolic information such as for example functional and oncological imaging the evaluation of new radiopharmaceuticals for increased diagnostic efficacy the evaluator or new receptor ligands and reporter gene expression imaging.

When gamma ray imaging devices are used in small animal imaging the detection sensitivity and the spatial resolution of a projected image of the subject target organ often depends upon the geometry of the collimation system. One prior art collimator a parallel hole collimator is routinely employed in small animal imaging however the parallel hole collimation is typically not geometrically efficient for small animal imaging.

Another prior art collimator often used in small animal imaging is a single pinhole collimator. The single pinhole collimator provides generally high spatial resolution and reasonable sensitivity when the subject is placed in close proximity to the pinhole. A single pinhole collimator generates a cone beam imaging geometry. A large cone angle as typically generated by a single pinhole collimator generally provides relatively large image magnification which in turn results in greater spatial resolution. However a large cone angle also causes a data insufficiency problem which translates into increased distortion and artifact severity in a reconstructed three dimensional image. The severity of artifact is generally proportional to the cone angle of the single pinhole in the direction of the axis of rotation. Increasing the distance between the single pinhole collimator and the subject thereby generating a smaller cone angle may decrease the severity of artifacts. However sensitivity is also decreased when the single pinhole collimator to subject distance is increased.

Another prior art collimator often employed when imaging small animals is a multiple pinhole collimator. The multiple pinhole collimator having a plurality of pinholes typically reduces cone beam related artifact effects and increases detection sensitivity by tiling the detector with multiple cone beam images. The multiple pinhole collimator is typically placed relatively farther away from the subject than a single pinhole collimator thereby generating smaller cone angles. The use of smaller cone angles typically mitigates data insufficiency problems and decreases the severity of artifacts. However the use of smaller cone angles also results in reduced image magnification which in turn results in decreased spatial resolution. The use of multiple pinholes allows a greater number of photons to pass through the multiple pinhole collimator thereby improving sensitivity. However the number of pinholes that may be used is limited since the use of too many pinholes may result in the overlapping of projected images on the detector thereby reducing the quality of the tomographic information content in the projection data.

Thus what is needed is a collimator and method of configuring the collimator for use with a gamma ray imaging device to overcome one or more of the challenges and or obstacles described above.

One aspect of the invention provides a skew slit collimator for a gamma ray imaging device where the gamma ray imaging device includes a detector having a generally planar detector surface that is operable to be positioned adjacent a subject imaging region. The skew slit collimator includes a first collimator blade having a first slit and a second collimator blade having a second slit. The first collimator blade is disposed in front of and generally parallel to the detector surface. The second collimator blade is disposed between the first collimator blade and the detector surface such that the second collimator is generally parallel to and spaced apart from the first collimator blade. The lengthwise orientation of the second slit is generally orthogonal to the lengthwise orientation of the first slit.

Another aspect of the invention provides a method of configuring a skew slit collimator for a gamma ray imaging device including a detector having a generally planar detector surface where the detector surface is operable to be positioned adjacent a subject imaging region. A first collimator blade having a first slit is positioned in front of and generally parallel to the detector surface. A second collimator blade having a second slit is positioned generally parallel to and spaced apart from the first collimator blade. The second collimator blade is oriented with respect to the first collimator blade such that the lengthwise orientation of the second slit is generally orthogonal to a lengthwise orientation of the first slit.

Referring to a perspective view of one embodiment of a nuclear imaging assembly in accordance with the principles of the present invention is shown. The nuclear imaging assembly generally includes a subject support structure a base gantry a rotatable gantry and one or more gamma ray imaging devices . A subject such as for example a small animal is typically injected with one or more radiopharmaceuticals or radioisotopes. The injected radiopharmaceuticals are absorbed by and localize within a target organ in the subject . The accumulated radiopharmaceuticals emit energy in the form of gamma rays or photons that illuminate the target organ. The nuclear imaging assembly creates images of the distribution of the accumulated radioactive pharmaceuticals within the subject target organ.

The subject support structure supports the subject to be imaged. Examples of subjects include but are not limited to small animals portions of animals and phantoms. The rotatable gantry is mounted on the base gantry and defines a subject receiving aperture with a subject imaging region within the subject receiving aperture . One or more gamma ray imaging devices are adjustably mounted to the rotatable gantry . In one embodiment the gamma ray imaging devices are positioned at regular intervals around the subject imaging region . For example a total of three gamma ray imaging devices may be positioned on the rotatable gantry at 120 intervals around the subject imaging region . In another embodiment the gamma ray imaging devices may be circumferentially adjustable to selectively vary their relative spacing with respect to each other on the rotatable gantry . In one embodiment separate translation devices such as motors and drive assemblies not shown independently translate the gamma ray imaging devices laterally in directions tangential to the subject imaging region along linear tracks or other appropriate guide structures. In another embodiment the gamma ray imaging devices are also independently movable in a radial direction with respect to the subject imaging region . In yet another embodiment the gamma ray imaging devices can be selectively canted or tilted with respect to the radial lines from the center of the subject imaging region . A motor and drive system not shown is employed to control the movement of the gamma ray imaging devices . In one embodiment each gamma ray imaging device can be positioned and controlled individually. In another embodiment the gamma ray imaging devices can be positioned and controlled together as a unit.

In one embodiment the base gantry can be advanced towards and or retracted from the subject support structure so as to appropriately position the subject within the subject imaging region to obtain desired images of the target organ. In another embodiment the subject support structure can be advanced towards and or retracted from the base gantry to achieve the desired positioning of the subject within the subject imaging region . In yet another embodiment the subject support structure can be raised or lowered to appropriately position the subject within the subject imaging region .

Each of the one or more gamma ray imaging devices includes a skew slit collimator and a detector . Each detector typically includes a scintillation crystal which produces a flash or scintillation of light each time it is struck by radiation emanating from the radioactive dye in the subject . An array of photomultiplier tubes and associated circuitry produces an output signal which is indicative of the x y position of each scintillation on the crystal.

In operation the subject is placed on the subject support structure and the subject support structure is appropriately positioned within the subject receiving aperture such that the target organ is positioned within the subject imaging region . The one or more gamma ray imaging devices are appropriately positioned with respect to the subject target organ to be imaged. The one or more gamma ray detectors are rotated or indexed in a generally circular orbit about the subject imaging region . The direction of the rotation of the gamma ray imaging devices defines the axis of rotation . The one or more gamma ray imaging devices detect the radiation emitted by the target organ from a plurality of different directions and capture multiple two dimensional images where each image provides a different angular view of the target organ. The collected two dimensional images are used to compute or reconstruct three dimensional volumetric representations of the target organ.

In another embodiment of the invention one or more gamma ray imaging devices are mounted onto a base gantry. The subject support structure includes a rotatable subject support portion. The one or more gamma ray imaging devices are maintained in stationary positions with respect to the subject imaging region. In operation the subject is appropriately positioned on the rotatable subject support portion and the rotatable subject support portion is appropriately positioned within the subject imaging region. The rotatable subject support portion is rotated about an axis of rotation where the axis of rotation is generally parallel to the planar faces of the one or more gamma ray imaging devices . The one or more gamma ray imaging devices detect the radiation emitted by the target organ from a plurality of different directions and capture multiple two dimensional images where each image provides a different angular view of the target organ. The collected two dimensional images are used to compute or reconstruct three dimensional volumetric representations of the target organ.

Referring to a schematic representation of a gamma ray imaging device equipped with one embodiment of a skew slit collimator positioned adjacent a subject in accordance with the principles of the present invention is shown. The gamma ray imaging device generally includes a detector surface of a detector and a skew slit collimator . The gamma ray imaging device is positioned with the skew slit collimator adjacent the subject . An inverted and magnified image of the subject is projected onto the detector surface .

In one embodiment the gamma ray imaging device is rotated in a generally circular orbit about the subject imaging region with the skew slit collimator facing the subject . The axis of rotation is defined by the direction that the gamma imaging device is rotated about the subject imaging region . In another embodiment the gamma ray imaging device is maintained in a stationary position and the subject is positioned on a rotatable subject support portion. The rotatable subject support portion is rotated thereby rotating the subject with respect to the gamma ray imaging device . In which case the axis of rotation is defined by the direction of rotation of the rotatable subject support portion.

The skew slit collimator includes a first collimator blade and a second collimator blade . The first collimator blade is positioned generally parallel to the detector surface and adjacent the subject positioned within the subject imaging region . More specifically the first collimator blade is positioned at a distance of Dfrom the detector surface and at distance of Ffrom the axis of rotation . Fis the focal length associated with the first collimator blade . The distance Fis typically selected to be slightly larger than the maximum radius of the subject that the user wishes to image. For example for a phantom or subject having a maximum radius of approximately 1.5 cm an Fdistance of approximately 1.8 cm may be selected by the user. However it should be noted that alternative distances for Fthat are much greater than or smaller than the maximum radius of a subject may be used without departing from the spirit of the invention.

The first collimator blade includes a generally centered vertical slit . The first collimator blade is oriented with respect to the subject imaging region such that the lengthwise orientation of the vertical slit is generally parallel to the axis of rotation . The length of the vertical slit is selected to be greater than the maximum diameter of the subject . For example if the maximum diameter of a particular subject happens to be 5 cm a vertical slit having a length of greater than 5 cm is selected. However it should be noted that the use of first collimator blades having vertical slits that is less than the maximum diameter of the subject are also considered to be within the scope of the invention. The width dof the vertical slit is typically selected based on desired transaxial spatial resolution R. The relationship between the vertical slit width dand transaxial spatial resolution Rwill be discussed in greater detail below.

The second collimator blade is positioned generally parallel to the detector surface and between the first collimator blade and the detector surface . More specifically the second collimator blade is positioned at a distance of Dfrom the detector surface and at distance of Ffrom the axis of rotation . Fis the focal length associated with the second collimator blade . The second collimator blade is spaced apart from the first collimator blade such that the value of Fis greater than the value of F. When the value of Fis selected to be greater than the value of F the cone beam data related insufficiency artifacts and distortions are primarily a function of the value of F.

The second collimator blade includes a generally centered horizontal slit . The second collimator blade is oriented with respect to the first collimator blade such that the lengthwise orientation of the horizontal slit is generally orthogonal to the lengthwise orientation of the vertical slit . In other words the lengthwise orientation of the horizontal slit is generally orthogonal to the axis of rotation . In one embodiment the length of the horizontal slit is selected to be approximately the length of the detector surface . It should be noted however that alternative horizontal slit lengths that are less than or greater than the length of the detector surface are also considered to be within the scope of the invention. The selection of the horizontal slit width dis typically based on desired axial spatial resolution R. The relationship between the horizontal slit width dand axial spatial resolution Rwill be discussed in greater detail below.

The amplification or magnification of the projected image is typically evaluated in terms of a transaxial amplification factor in the horizontal or transaxial direction and an axial amplification factor in the vertical or axial direction. The horizontal or transaxial direction is the direction that is orthogonal to the axis of rotation . The vertical or axial direction is the direction that is parallel to the axis of rotation . The skew slit collimator provides the flexibility of altering the amplification factor of the projected image independently in the axial and the transaxial directions.

The position of the first collimator blade having the vertical slit governs amplification of the projected image in the transaxial direction. The transaxial amplification factor is the ratio of the value of the distance D the distance from the vertical slit to the detector surface to the value of the distance F the distance from the vertical slit to the axis of rotation as represented by the equation below Transaxial Amplification Factor As can be seen the value of the distance Fcontrols image amplification in the transaxial direction. The lower the value of Fcompared to the value of D the greater the resultant transaxial amplification factor. The placement of the first collimator blade in close proximity to the subject results in a relatively small value for Fand results in the generation of a relatively large cone angle. Large cone angles typically provide relatively large image amplification. A large transaxial amplification factor is typically not a concern with respect to image artifacts as transaxial amplification does not cause the type of data insufficiency problems that typically result in distortion and artifacts in a reconstructed three dimensional image. This enables the user to select the shortest possible distance Fto achieve the greatest possible transaxial amplification factor. For example the first collimator blade may be positioned very close to the subject such that the first collimator blade is almost in physical contact with the subject .

The position of the second collimator blade having the horizontal slit governs amplification of the projected image in the axial direction. The axial amplification factor is the ratio of the value of the distance D the distance from the horizontal slit to the detector surface to the value of the distance F the distance from the horizontal slit to the axis of rotation as represented by the equation below Axial Amplification Factor The severity of artifact is generally proportional to the cone angle size in the axial direction. As a result while a large cone angle typically provides relatively large image amplification a large axial amplification factor also causes the type of data insufficiency problems which result in distortion and artifacts in a reconstructed three dimensional image. Therefore the horizontal slit is strategically positioned at Fto generate a relatively small cone angle. In one embodiment the distance Fis selected such that the value of the associated axial amplification factor is typically maintained at or below approximately two. However it should be noted that the selection of alternative values for the distance Fthat generate axial amplification factors that are greater than two are also considered to be within the scope of the invention.

The spatial resolution of the projected image is typically evaluated in terms of a transaxial spatial resolution Rand an axial spatial resolution R. Typically a skew slit collimator having a vertical slit and a horizontal slit oriented as illustrated in produces an image having relatively better transaxial spatial resolution Rthan axial spatial resolution R.

Selecting a relatively small value for F i.e. placing the first collimator blade in close proximity to the subject generates relatively superior transaxial spatial resolution R. Also as can be seen from the equation above the selection of the value of the vertical slit width dalso affects the transaxial spatial resolution R.

While selecting a small value for the distance F generates relatively better axial spatial resolution R the use of a shorter Falso generates a large cone angle which in turn provides a large axial amplification factor. As discussed above a large axial amplification factor is undesirable because a large axial amplification factor causes the type of data insufficiency problems which result in distortion and artifacts in a reconstructed three dimensional image. Thus the selection of an appropriate Finvolves the user balancing the interests of minimizing image distortion and artifacts versus maximizing the quality of axial amplification and axial spatial resolution R. Also as can be seen from the equation above the selection of the value of the horizontal slit width dalso affects the axial spatial resolution R.

An example of a skew slit collimator configuration that seeks to balance the qualities of transaxial image amplification axial image amplification transaxial spatial resolution R axial spatial resolution R and distortion and artifact control for imaging a subject that is approximately 2 cm to approximately 5 cm in diameter and approximately 5 cm to approximately 10 cm in length is described below. It should be noted that the values for the skew slit collimator configuration parameters defined below have been selected for illustrative purposes only. The use of alternative skew slit collimator configuration parameter values is also considered to be within the scope and spirit of the invention.

As can be seen selecting a value of Fthat is greater than a value of Fgenerates a transaxial amplification factor that is relatively greater than the axial amplification factor. Furthermore when Fis greater than F the cone beam data insufficiency artifacts and distortions are only affected by F. Therefore the value of Fcan be selected to achieve greater detection sensitivity and greater image amplification in the transaxial direction. Also in this example the selected vertical slit width dis equal to the selected horizontal slit width d. If it is desirable to generate an image with a more isotropic spatial resolution selecting a horizontal slit width dthat is smaller than the vertical slit width dwill generate an image where the transaxial spatial resolution is comparable to the axial resolution.

Referring to a schematic representation of a gamma ray imaging device equipped with another embodiment of a skew slit collimator positioned adjacent a subject in accordance with the principles of the present invention is shown. The gamma ray imaging device generally includes a detector surface of a detector and a skew slit collimator . The gamma ray imaging device is positioned such that the skew slit collimator is adjacent the subject . An inverted and magnified image of the subject is projected onto the detector surface .

The skew slit collimator includes a first collimator blade and a second collimator blade . The first collimator blade is positioned generally parallel to the detector surface and in close proximity to the subject within the subject imaging region . More specifically the first collimator blade is positioned at a distance of Dfrom the detector surface and at distance of Ffrom the axis of rotation . Fis the focal length associated with the first collimator blade .

The first collimator blade includes a generally centered horizontal slit . The first collimator blade is oriented with respect to the subject imaging region such that the lengthwise orientation of the horizontal slit is generally orthogonal to the axis of rotation . The length of the horizontal slit is selected to be greater than the maximum width of the subject to be imaged. The horizontal slit width dis typically selected based on desired axial spatial resolution R. The axial spatial resolution Rcan be determined using the following equation 

The second collimator blade is positioned generally parallel to the detector surface and between the first collimator blade and the detector surface . More specifically the second collimator blade is positioned at a distance of Dfrom the detector surface and at distance of Ffrom the axis of rotation . Fis the focal length associated with the second collimator blade . The second collimator blade is spaced apart from the first collimator blade such that the value of Fis greater than the value of F.

The second collimator blade includes a generally centered vertical slit . The second collimator blade is oriented with respect to the first collimator blade such that the lengthwise orientation of the vertical slit is generally orthogonal to the lengthwise orientation of the horizontal slit . In other words the lengthwise orientation of the vertical slit is generally parallel to the axis of rotation . In one embodiment the length of the vertical slit is selected to be approximately the length of the detector surface . It should be noted however that alternative vertical slit lengths that are less than or greater than the length of the detector surface are also considered to be within the scope of the invention. The selection of the vertical slit width dis typically based on desired transaxial spatial resolution R. The transaxial spatial resolution Rcan be determined using the following equation 

The placement of the first collimator blade having the horizontal slit adjacent the subject and the second collimator blade having a vertical slit between the first collimator blade and the detector surface provides poorer spatial resolution in the transaxial direction than in the axial direction. This rotated skew slit collimator configuration may be used in applications where a relatively small detector surface is used to image a relatively large or relatively fat subject . In such a case it is desirable to select a relatively low transaxial amplification factor to avoid truncation of the projected image on the detector surface . The previously provided amplification factor equations for the skew slit collimator configuration illustrated in are applicable to the skew slit collimator configuration illustrated in .

Referring to a schematic representation of a gamma ray imaging device equipped with yet another embodiment of a skew slit collimator positioned adjacent a subject in accordance with the principles of the present invention is shown. The gamma ray imaging device generally includes a detector surface of a detector and a skew slit collimator . The gamma ray imaging device is positioned with the skew slit collimator adjacent the subject . Inverted and magnified images of the subject are projected onto the detector surface .

The skew slit collimator includes a first collimator blade and a second collimator blade . The first collimator blade is positioned generally parallel to the detector surface and adjacent the subject positioned within the subject imaging region . More specifically the first collimator blade is positioned at a distance of Dfrom the detector surface and at distance of Ffrom the axis of rotation . Fis the focal length associated with the first collimator blade . The distance Fis typically selected to be slightly larger than the maximum radius of the subject that the user wishes to image. However it should be noted that alternative distances for Fthat are much greater than or smaller than the maximum radius of a subject may be used without departing from the spirit of the invention.

The first collimator blade includes a generally centered vertical slit . The first collimator blade is oriented with respect to the subject imaging region such that the lengthwise orientation of the vertical slit is generally parallel to the axis of rotation . The length of the vertical slit is selected to be greater than the maximum diameter of the subject that the user wishes to image. However it should be noted that the use of first collimator blades having a vertical slit that is less than the maximum diameter of the subject are also considered to be within the scope of the invention.

The second collimator blade is positioned generally parallel to the detector surface and between the first collimator blade and the detector surface . More specifically the second collimator blade is positioned at a distance of Dfrom the detector surface and at distance of Ffrom the axis of rotation . Fis the focal length associated with the second collimator blade . The second collimator blade is spaced apart from the first collimator blade such that the value of Fis greater than the value of F.

The second collimator blade includes three horizontal slits . The second collimator blade is oriented with respect to the first collimator blade such that the lengthwise orientation of the three horizontal slits are generally orthogonal to the lengthwise orientation of the vertical slit . In other words the lengthwise orientation of the three horizontal slits are generally orthogonal to the axis of rotation . Adjacent horizontal slits are spaced approximately 100 mm apart with respect to each other. While the second collimator blade is described as having three horizontal slits it should be noted that a second collimator blade having two or more horizontal slits is considered to be within the scope of the invention. Furthermore while adjacent horizontal slits are described as being spaced 100 mm apart with respect to each other adjacent horizontal slits having spacing that is less than or greater than 100 mm is also considered to be within the scope of the invention.

The previously provided amplification factor equations for the skew slit collimator configuration illustrated in are applicable to the skew slit collimator configuration illustrated in . The skew slit collimator provides the flexibility of altering the amplification factor in the axial and transaxial directions independently. The position of the first collimator blade having the vertical slit governs the transaxial magnification of the projected images . The smaller the distance F the distance between the first collimator blade and the subject the greater the resulting transaxial magnification. A large transaxial magnification is typically not a concern with respect to image artifacts as transaxial amplification typically does not cause the type of data insufficiency problems that result in distortion and artifacts in a reconstructed three dimensional image. Therefore the first collimator blade can be place in close proximity to even almost touching the subject in order to achieve relatively superior transaxial magnification.

The position of the second collimator blade having the horizontal slits governs the axial amplification of the projected images . The second collimator blade is strategically positioned at a distance Ffrom the subject to generate relatively small cone angles. While large cone angles provide greater image amplification large axial amplification also causes the type of data insufficiency problems which result in distortion and artifact in a reconstructed three dimensional image. In one embodiment the distance Fis selected such that the value of the associated axial amplification factor is typically maintained at or below approximately two. However it should be noted that the selection of alternative values for the distance Fthat generate axial amplification factors that are greater than two are also considered to be within the scope of the invention.

The use of a relatively large transaxial magnification translates into relatively superior transaxial spatial resolution R. Using a second collimator blade having multiple horizontal slits produces multiple projected images of the subject upon the detector surface . The multiple simultaneously projected images are not identical copies of each other because each projected image is sampled at a different location. As a result the effective axial spatial resolution of the image will be better than the actual axial spatial resolution Rof each individual projected image . The relatively superior effective axial spatial resolution is produced by virtue of the fact that the duplicated measurements from each of the different horizontal slits do not have exact same sampling points thereby resulting in equivalent finer sampling in the axial direction. Hence the skew slit collimator of provides images with relatively superior effective axial spatial resolution when compared to images generated by the skew slit collimator shown in .

As mentioned previously in one embodiment the gamma ray imaging devices are rotated or indexed about the subject in a circular orbit. The use of a circular orbit can contribute to circular orbit related data insufficiency artifacts. The use of a skew slit collimator having a second collimator blade having multiple horizontal slits reduces data insufficiency artifacts caused by the use of a circular orbit.

Sensitivity is typically measured by the total number of photons that pass through the skew slit collimator and can be approximated by the total area covered by the images projected onto the detector surface at one time. The use of multiple horizontal slits with appropriate spacing distances between adjacent horizontal slits generates multiple projected images onto the detector surface .

When projected images overlap on the detector surface as a result of multiplexing the information content in the projected image is reduced. Reduced information content leads to relatively ill conditioned image reconstruction and greater sensitivity to noise amplification. More specifically reduced location information resulting from projected image overlap increases the severity of artifact and decreases image resolution. The use of a second collimator blade having too many horizontal slits or having horizontal slits that are too closely spaced together may cause the overlapping of projected images on the detector surface .

In one embodiment the user derives a value for adjacent horizontal slit spacing by approximating the size of the region of interest within the subject such as for example the size of the target organ determining the axial amplification factor for the skew slit collimator and multiplying the approximated size of the region of interest by the axial amplification factor. However it should be noted that while one method of determining a value for adjacent horizontal slit spacing has been described alternative methods of selecting a value for adjacent horizontal slit spacing are also considered to be within the scope of the invention.

The regular and separated positioning of projected images on the detector surface also facilitates the development of analytical reconstruction algorithms.

Referring to and a perspective view and a cross sectional side view of one embodiment of a skew slit collimator assembly is shown. The skew slit collimator assembly is removeably mounted onto a detector housing . The skew slit collimator assembly generally includes a collimator housing having an integrated first collimator blade a second collimator blade and a blade positioning mechanism .

The collimator housing generally includes four sidewalls four angled walls that extend upward and inward from each of the four sidewalls and an upper wall . The upper wall operates as the first collimator blade and includes a first slit . A pair of fastening posts extend downwardly from each of the two opposing angled walls . The collimator housing is manufactured from a gamma ray shielding material such as for example lead tungsten gold iridium or platinum. While a number of materials that can be used to manufacture collimator housings have been described collimator housings manufactured from other gamma ray shielding materials are also considered to be within the scope of the invention.

The second collimator blade includes a second slit and four positioning holes . The positioning holes are aligned with the positions of the fastening posts . The second collimator blade is manufactured from a gamma ray shielding material such as for example lead tungsten gold iridium or platinum. While a number of materials that can be used to manufacture second collimator blades have been described second collimator blades manufactured from other gamma ray shielding materials are also considered to be within the scope of the invention.

Based on selected values for F F and D the user can derive a distance for positioning the second collimator blade with respect to the upper wall acting as a first collimator blade . The distance Dbetween the upper wall and the detector surface is fixed. The blade positioning mechanism is used to position the second collimator blade at the selected distance Dfrom the detector surface and at the derived distance from the upper wall . The blade positioning mechanism generally includes the four fastening posts four threaded posts four upper positioning nuts and four lower positioning nuts .

To assemble the skew slit collimator assembly one end of each of the four threaded posts is threaded into each of the four fastening posts . The four upper positioning nuts are threaded onto the four threaded posts such that the lower edge of each of the upper positioning nuts is approximately at the user derived distance from the upper wall . The second collimator blade is oriented with respect to the upper wall such that the lengthwise orientation of the second slit is generally orthogonal to the lengthwise orientation of the first slit . The positioning holes of the second collimator blade are aligned with the four threaded posts and the second collimator blade is positioned against the four upper positioning nuts . The four lower positioning nuts are threaded onto the four threaded posts to secure the second collimator blade against the four upper positioning nuts .

The user has the option of mounting the configured skew slit assembly onto the detector in either a first configuration as illustrated in or a second configuration as illustrated in . In the first configuration the first slit is oriented as a vertical slit where the lengthwise orientation of the first slit is positioned generally parallel to the axis of rotation . In the second configuration the first slit is oriented as a horizontal slit where the lengthwise orientation of the first slit is positioned generally orthogonal to the axis of rotation . The configured skew slit collimator assembly is mounted onto the detector in one of the two described configurations using any one of a number of techniques for mounting collimators onto the detectors that are generally known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

In another embodiment of the skew slit collimator assembly the second collimator blade has two or more parallel slits. The skew slit collimator configuration for such a skew slit collimator including a second collimator blade having multiple slits is illustrated in . The second collimator blade is oriented with respect to the upper wall such that the lengthwise orientation of the multiple parallel slits are generally orthogonal to the lengthwise orientation of the first slit .

In one embodiment the second collimator blade has a slit width adjustment mechanism described below . In another embodiment of the skew slit collimator assembly a set of second collimator blades where each second collimator blade has a different second slit width is provided. In yet another embodiment a set of second collimator blades having multiple parallel slits is provided where each second collimator blade has a different number of slits. In yet another embodiment a set of second collimator blades having multiple slits is provided where the width of the multiple slits vary from second collimator blade to second collimator blade. In another embodiment a second collimator blade having multiple slits include a slit width adjustment mechanism for adjusting the width of each of the multiple slits described below .

It should be noted that while one manner of securing a second collimator blade to the collimator housing has been described alternative mechanisms for securing the second collimator blade to the collimator housing are also considered to be within the scope of the invention.

Referring to and a perspective view and a cross sectional side view of another embodiment of a skew slit collimator assembly is shown. The skew slit collimator assembly is removeably mountable onto a detector . The skew slit collimator assembly generally includes a collimator housing a first collimator blade a second collimator blade a first blade positioning mechanism and a second blade positioning mechanism .

The collimator housing shields the detector from stray gamma rays. The collimator housing generally includes an upper frame a lower frame four lower sidewalls and an upper ledge . The upper ledge extends inwardly from the upper edges of the lower sidewalls to the lower edges of the lower frame . The combined upper frame and lower frame define four upper sidewalls. The upper frame is slidably fitted over the lower frame such that the total height of the upper sidewalls can be adjusted by adjusting the position of the upper frame with respect to the lower frame . Four fastening posts extend downward from the lower surface of the upper ledge . The collimator housing is manufactured from a gamma ray shielding material such as for example lead tungsten gold iridium or platinum. While a number of materials that can be used to manufacture collimator housings have been described collimator housings manufactured from other gamma ray shielding materials are also considered to be within the scope of the invention.

The first collimator blade includes a first slit and a set of four positioning holes . The second collimator blade includes a second slit four inner positioning holes and four outer positioning holes . The four inner positioning holes are aligned with the four positioning holes of the first collimator blade . The four outer positioning holes are aligned with the four fastening posts . The first and second collimator blades are manufactured from a gamma ray shielding material such as for example lead tungsten gold iridium or platinum. While a number of materials that can be used to manufacture the first and second collimator blades have been described first and second collimator blades manufactured from other gamma ray shielding materials are also considered to be within the scope of the invention.

The first blade positioning mechanism is used to position the second collimator blade at a selected distance from the first collimator blade . The first blade positioning mechanism generally includes four threaded bolts four upper positioning nuts and eight lower positioning nuts .

The second blade positioning mechanism is used to position the second collimator blade at a selected distance Dfrom the detector surface . The second blade positioning mechanism includes four fastening posts four threaded posts four upper positioning nuts and four lower positioning nuts .

To assemble the skew slit collimator assembly each of the four threaded bolts is inserted into a positioning hole in the first collimator blade . Four lower positioning nuts are threaded onto each of the four threaded bolts to secure the first collimator blade .

Based on selected values for F F D and D the user derives a distance for positioning the second collimator blade with respect to the first collimator blade . Four upper positioning nuts are threaded onto the four threaded bolts such that the lower edge of each upper positioning nut is approximately at the user derived distance from the first collimator blade . The second collimator blade is oriented with respect to the first collimator blade such that the lengthwise orientation of the second slit is generally orthogonal to the lengthwise orientation of the first slit . The inner positioning holes of the second collimator blade are aligned with the four threaded bolts and the second collimator blade is positioned against the four upper positioning nuts . Four lower positioning nuts are threaded onto the four threaded bolts to secure the second collimator blade in place.

The upper frame is slidingly adjusted with respect to the lower frame such that the sum of the heights of the upper sidewall and lower sidewall approximates the selected distance D. The upper edges of the upper frame are generally flush with the planar surface of the first collimator blade . Once the adjustments are complete the upper frame is secured to the lower frame using any one of a number of fastening mechanisms that are known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

The second blade positioning mechanism is used to secure the assembled first and second collimator blades to the collimator housing such that the second collimator blade is positioned at a distance Dfrom the detector surface . One end of each of the four threaded posts is threaded into each of the four fastening posts . The four upper positioning nuts are threaded onto the four threaded posts such that the lower edge of the upper positioning nuts are approximately positioned at a distance Dfrom the detector surface . With the first collimator blade facing outward the assembled first and second collimator blades is inserted into the collimator housing such that the threaded posts extend through the outer positioning holes of the second collimator blade . The second collimator blade is positioned against the four upper positioning nuts . The four lower positioning nuts are threaded onto the four threaded posts to secure the second collimator blade against the four upper positioning nuts .

The user has the option of mounting the skew slit assembly onto the detector in either a first configuration as illustrated in or a second configuration as illustrated in . In the first configuration the first slit is oriented as a vertical slit where the lengthwise orientation of the first slit is positioned generally parallel to the axis of rotation . In the second configuration the first slit is oriented as a horizontal slit where the lengthwise orientation of the first slit is positioned generally orthogonal to the axis of rotation . The skew slit collimator assembly is mounted onto the detector in one of the two described configurations using any one of a number of techniques for mounting collimators onto detectors that are generally known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

In another embodiment of the skew slit collimator assembly the second collimator blade has two or more parallel slits. The skew slit collimator configuration a skew slit collimator including a second collimator blade having multiple slits is illustrated in . The second collimator blade is oriented with respect to the first collimator blade such that the lengthwise orientation of the multiple parallel slits are generally orthogonal to the lengthwise orientation of the first slit .

In one embodiment the first and second collimator blades each have a slit width adjustment mechanism described below . In another embodiment of the skew slit collimator assembly a set of first collimator blades where each first collimator blade has a different first slit width dand a set of second collimator blades where each second collimator blade has a different second slit width dis provided. In yet another embodiment a set of second collimator blades having multiple parallel slits is provided where each second collimator blade has a different number of slits. In yet another embodiment a set of second collimator blades having multiple slits is provided where the width of the multiple slits vary from second collimator blade to second collimator blade. In another embodiment a set of second collimator blades having multiple slits is provided where the spacing between adjacent slits varies from blade to blade. In another embodiment a second collimator blade having multiple slits includes a slit width adjustment mechanism for adjusting the width of each of the multiple slits described below .

Furthermore it should be noted that while one manner of securing the first and second collimator blade to the collimator housing has been described alternative mechanisms for securing the first and second collimator blades to the collimator housing are also considered to be within the scope of the invention.

Referring to . a collimator blade having an slit width adjustment mechanism in accordance with the principles of the present invention generally includes a base blade first and second slit blades and a securing mechanism . The base blade includes a slit width aperture . The securing mechanism consists of a plurality of positioning slots and a plurality of nuts and bolts . The base blade and the first and second slit blades each include positioning slots . The first and second slit blades are positioned on top of the base blade such that a slit having a selected slit width is defined therebetween. The first and second slit blades are secured in place to the base blade using the securing mechanism .

In another embodiment the collimator blade is a multiple slit collimator blade. The multiple slit collimator blade includes a base blade having multiple generally parallel slit width apertures where each slit width aperture is operable to be configured as a single slit. A set of first and second slit blades and associated securing mechanisms are provided for each of slit width apertures. Each individual slit width can be adjusted and secured as described above.

The base blade is manufactured from a gamma ray shielding material such as for example lead tungsten gold iridium or platinum. The first and second slit blades are manufactured from a gamma ray shielding material such as for example lead tungsten gold iridium or platinum. While a number of materials that can be used to manufacture the base blade and first and second slit blades have been described base blades and first and second slit blades manufactured from other gamma ray shielding materials are also considered to be within the scope of the invention.

While the embodiments of the invention disclosed herein are presently considered to be preferred various changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The scope of the invention is indicated in the appended claims and all changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalents are intended to be embraced therein.

