---

title: Methods and systems for user interface customization
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention comprise systems and methods for user interface customization.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07978618&OS=07978618&RS=07978618
owner: Sharp Laboratories of America, Inc.
number: 07978618
owner_city: Camas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061121
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 962 248 entitled Methods and Systems for Imaging Device Remote Application Interaction filed on Oct. 8 2004 this application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 961 793 entitled Methods and Systems for Imaging Device Remote Form Management filed on Oct. 8 2004 this application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 961 911 entitled Methods and Systems for Imaging Device Remote Location Functions filed on Oct. 8 2004 this application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 961 594 entitled Methods and Systems for Imaging Device Document Management filed on Oct. 8 2004 and this application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 962 103 entitled Methods and Systems for Imaging Device Document Translation filed on Oct. 8 2004.

Imaging devices such as printers copiers scanners and fax machines can have a wide array of functions and capabilities to fit specific uses or combinations of uses. Imaging devices often take the form of a multi function peripheral device MFP that combines the functions of two or more of the traditionally separated imaging devices. An MFP may combine any number of imaging devices but typically comprises the functions of a printer scanner copier and fax machine.

Some imaging devices may contain computing resources for data storage and processing such as processors hard disk drives memory and other devices. As imaging devices add more features and functions they become more costly and complex.

More complex imaging devices and MFPs may comprise network connectivity to provide communication with other computing devices such as personal computers other imaging devices network servers and other apparatus. This connectivity allows the imaging device to utilize off board resources that are available on a connected network.

Imaging devices typically have a user input panel with an array of buttons knobs and other user input devices. Some devices also have a display panel which can be for display only or can be a touch panel display that enables user input directly on the display.

Devices with touch panel displays or displays with buttons arranged in cooperation with the display can display menu data that may be selected by user input. This menu data is typically driven by an on board server module within the imaging device.

Some embodiments of the present invention comprise methods and systems for user interface customization based on user login.

The foregoing and other objectives features and advantages of the invention will be more readily understood upon consideration of the following detailed description of the invention taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Embodiments of the present invention will be best understood by reference to the drawings wherein like parts are designated by like numerals throughout. The figures listed above are expressly incorporated as part of this detailed description.

It will be readily understood that the components of the present invention as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the methods and systems of the present invention is not intended to limit the scope of the invention but it is merely representative of the presently preferred embodiments of the invention.

Elements of embodiments of the present invention may be embodied in hardware firmware and or software. While exemplary embodiments revealed herein may only describe one of these forms it is to be understood that one skilled in the art would be able to effectuate these elements in any of these forms while resting within the scope of the present invention.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 962 248 entitled Methods and Systems for Imaging Device Remote Application Interaction filed on Oct. 8 2004 is hereby incorporated herein by reference. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 961 793 entitled Methods and Systems for Imaging Device Remote Form Management filed on Oct. 8 2004 is hereby incorporated herein by reference. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 961 911 entitled Methods and Systems for Imaging Device Remote Location Functions filed on Oct. 8 2004 is hereby incorporated herein by reference. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 961 594 entitled Methods and Systems for Imaging Device Document Management filed on Oct. 8 2004 is hereby incorporated herein by reference. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 962 103 entitled Methods and Systems for Imaging Device Document Translation filed on Oct. 8 2004 is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Embodiments of the present invention comprise interfaces and architectures that integrate imaging devices with remote computing device applications and environments to provide solutions that may not be possible solely with an imaging device alone. Some embodiments comprise an infrastructure and set of interfaces that allow applications on a network to programmatically control imaging device functions and interact with a user through an imaging device input panel. Software functions that are not practical within the imaging device can be performed on the server but are accessible from the imaging device.

For the purposes of this specification and claims an imaging device IDev may be described as a device that performs an imaging function. Imaging functions comprise scanning printing copying image transmission sending and receiving image conversion and other functions. Exemplary IDevs comprise printers copiers facsimile machines scanners computing devices that transmit convert or process images and other devices. An IDev may also perform multiple imaging functions. For example and not by way of limitation a multi function peripheral device MFP which typically has the capability to perform a plurality of functions comprising a printer scanner copier and or a facsimile machine or image transmitter receiver is a type of IDev. Other MFP IDevs may comprise other combinations of functions and still qualify as an IDev.

For the purposes of this specification and claims a remote computing device RCD is a device capable of processing data and communicating with other devices through a communications link. An RCD is a remote device because it requires a communications link such as a network connection a telephone line a serial cable or some other wired or wireless link to communicate with other devices such as an IDev. Some exemplary RCDs are network servers networked computers and other processing and storage devices that have communications links.

Some embodiments of the present invention may be described with reference to and . These embodiments comprise an IDev that may be a multi function peripheral device MFP or a single function device. The IDev further comprises a user interface UI panel which may comprise input buttons and a display device or may comprise a touch panel system with or without buttons . User input and display may also be performed through a separate UI device which may be connected to the IDev by a communication link such as a Universal Serial Bus USB connection a network cable a wireless connection or some other communications link. UI device may comprise an input device such as a keyboard or buttons as well as a display device which may also be a touch screen panel. UI device may also comprise an interface for transfer of instructions that are input to the device from a remote input device. This form of UI device may comprise memory sticks USB memory cards and other portable or fixed storage devices that may be configured to store input for transfer to an IDev.

These embodiments further comprise an RCD that is linked to the IDev via a communications link such as a network connection. This network connection may be a typical wired connection or a wireless link.

Embodiments of the present invention may provide menu data from the RCD to the IDev UI panel or remote panel via the network connection . Once this menu data is transferred to the IDev a UI panel on the IDev or connected to the IDev may be used to interact with applications that run on the RCD . User input received from UI panels may be returned directly to the RCD .

A Web Service is a software application identified by a Uniform Resource Identifier URI whose interfaces and binding are capable of being defined described and discovered by Extensible Markup Language XML artifacts and supports direct interactions with other software applications using XML based messages via Internet based protocols.

An application on the RCD may use one or more Web Services to control various features in the IDev such as enabling disabling or setting device values or controlling device functions. In some embodiments of the present invention an application on the RCD may retrieve customized UI information based on a user login and transmit the information to the IDev in order to effectuate presentation of a customized UI on a display panel at the IDev or a display panel connected to the IDev .

Embodiments of the present invention allow network applications running on RCDs to interact with the user of the IDev through the IDev I O panel. These embodiments allow IDev UI control e.g. touch panel button display by applications. Some embodiments may also integrate custom display screens or menus with the native IDev UI. Embodiments may hand off control of IDev functions between standard operation modes performed on the IDev in response to user input to an IDev UI and open systems modes that utilize network resources such as applications on RCDs through user input at the IDev UI.

Embodiments of the present invention comprise network based applications that have full control over the IDev UI to display text and graphics in any format. In these embodiments the application can programmatically display buttons textboxes graphics etc. in any layout desired. In some embodiments of the present invention the display of buttons textboxes graphics and other UI components may be displayed according to a user based customization.

In some embodiments the UI layout may be programmed using a standard language such as a markup language. These languages comprise Hypertext Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML Wireless Markup Language WML Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHTML and other languages.

In some embodiments of the present invention an RCD application or server application is able to request a keyboard UI to be displayed on the IDev display . In some embodiments this functionality is available on the IDev and does not need to be recreated by RCD applications. In some embodiments the RCD may define the keyboard prompt and default values. These embodiments may comprise an RCD that is able to rename IDev UI buttons such as the OK and Cancel buttons as well as define additional buttons.

Some embodiments of the present invention may comprise an RCD application that is registered as the External Authorization server. The External Authorization application may control access to the IDev and may have top level control of the UI. UI control may be given to this application in the same manner that control is given to an internal auditor.

In these embodiments when an IDev system boots it checks to see if an External Authorization application is registered. If so the IDev is placed in disabled mode and the External Authorization application is contacted to take control of the UI. If the External Authorization server is not available an error message may be displayed and the device may remain disabled. The IDev may periodically try to contact the External Authorization server until it is available. Table 1 below describes what entity has control of the UI in an exemplary embodiment when the device is in a disabled state.

In embodiments of the present invention access to the custom UI panels of IDevs may vary from application to application. Some solutions such as document management integration may wish to leverage the native Image Send screens but display some custom UI s to gather additional information about a scan job. Other solutions like custom printing applications may be accessed from a separate mode than the native functions.

In order to accommodate the diversified needs of the applications associated with these solutions embodiments may support multiple integration points for UI control. These integration points are based on a user action trigger for which applications may register. In some embodiments applications may be registered with target devices so that the device knows that when for example trigger A occurs on the front panel to contact RCD B for instructions. In exemplary embodiments applications may be integrated with an IDev at any of several trigger points.

RCDs may be registered to a specific function and contacted when that function s hardware key is pressed e.g. Image Send on the IDev UI. Any UI information provided by the RCD may be displayed instead of the standard function screens native to the IDev. This trigger may be used for applications that wish to replace the existing functions with completely custom UIs such as an alternative scan solution or a specialized display such as a Section 508 compatible screen or other specialized need interface that may have large buttons or other accommodations. In some embodiments the completely custom UIs may be based on user login information.

In some embodiments each function on the IDev may have a menu on the touch screen that RCDs such as servers can register. This enables solutions applications to provide custom content and still use some of the standard functionality provided by the IDev. When a button assigned to a custom application is selected a menu will be displayed with the solutions registered to that function. Users may select the desired solution and the RCD will be contacted for instructions.

In some embodiments a stand alone RCD mode that provides RCD application access can be accessed from the job queue portion of the UI that is displayed on every screen. This trigger point may be used for applications that do not fit within one of the standard device functions such as custom printing solutions on an IDev. When the RCD menu is selected a menu will be displayed with the solutions applications registered to the generic RCD mode. Users will select the desired solution and the RCD will be contacted for instructions.

In some embodiments of the present invention when an IDev is enabled additional hardware keys may be used to manage the device. Hardware key assignments for an exemplary embodiment are shown in table 2.

In some embodiments in addition to the key for logout a timeout period may be implemented. Some embodiments also comprise an auto clear setting that can be configured for a given period of time such as 10 to 240 seconds or disabled . In these embodiments when there is no activity for the time configured in auto clear the device may automatically return to disabled mode and attempt to contact an RCD to retake control of the UI.

Depending on a particular solution an RCD application may have full or only partial control of the IDev UI and a particular imaging job. In some embodiments partial control may include cases where an RCD is monitoring clicks but native modes are responsible for the UI interaction and controlling the job. Partial control may also include cases where the RCD application is integrated with a native mode UI trigger function custom menu . In these embodiments the IDev may handle all error and jam notifications with only a notification sent to the relevant RCD application.

For some embodiments in cases where the RCD application has full control over the UI and the job error and jam notifications may be handled differently depending on the type of error. For recoverable errors a notification may be sent to the RCD application and the application may be responsible for displaying messages and resolving the error. For non recoverable errors the IDev and RCD mode may interact to gracefully handle the error condition e.g. provide user with instructions for clearing jam .

In some embodiments at different points throughout an imaging job several applications may need control over an IDev including but not limited to an External Authorization application a standard RCD application an IDev native mode and other applications. The following section describes for an exemplary embodiment the various steps in an exemplary job the entities that may have control during each step and what type of control may be allowed.

Step 1 User provides credentials to access the device at the device UI. This step may be controlled by an RCD such as an External Authorization application or by Internal Accounting native mode in the IDev itself. At the end of this step the device is enabled. The External Authorization application may also specify default parameters or disable specific job parameters e.g. default file format is PDF but user may change color mode is set to B W and user may not change .

Step 2 User sets parameters for the job using one of the native IDev modes or a standard RCD application. At the end of this step the user makes an input to initiate the job. When the input is made an optional notification may be sent to the standard RCD application which can then change job parameters if desired. An e mail application is one example of an application that may request notification when the user input is made. A user may use native Image Send screens or other input to select scan options and choose e mail recipients. A user may then select a custom application button and choose the scan to e mail option from the menu. The e mail application may then display custom screens for the user to set permissions for the file. Once a user places the original document s on the scanner and initiates the process the e mail application may capture the destination parameters set by the user and change the target destination to the e mail application FTP server. The e mail application may then receive the file apply the appropriate permissions and send to the e mail recipients selected by the user. An RCD application may also want to retake control of the UI at this point if as in some embodiments the application generates thumbnails of the scanned images and displays them to the user for verification.

Step 3 Once the job is initiated the IDev is responsible for scanning or RIPing the job and spooling it to the HDD. If the IDev is configured to authorize jobs with an external authorization application it may send a click report to the application and wait for instructions. The external authorization application may enable the job for sending printing cancel the job or change job parameters and then enable . As an example a rules based printing application may wish to change job parameters after it receives a click report. Some rules based printing applications support rules based printing and scanning that can limit what each user is allowed to do based on the time of day the destination or many other parameters. For example only users in the marketing group may be able to scan high quality color images. If a user from another group selects color and 600 dpi a rules based application may change the parameters to color and 200 dpi. At the end of this step the job should either be authorized or canceled.

Step 4 In some embodiments this may be an optional step where the standard RCD application in step 2 may have specified the destination as a HDD for temporary storage. This step may also be used in some embodiments by a Java application running on the IDev. For example a government office may have a custom encryption application running on the device that takes the scanned document encrypts it and then requests the IDev to send it to the target destination selected by the user in step 2. In some embodiments it may be beneficial to send a notification to the external authorization application after this step because the IDev does not know how long the file will be on the HDD or what the application is going to do with it and after the send print step.

Step 5 In the final step the file is actually output. In typical embodiments the file is either sent over the network or printed locally. At the end of this step a notification that the job was successfully completed should be sent to the external authorization application and optionally to the standard RCD application.

The API s may be used to allow an RCD application to control access to an IDev for vend applications and to manage the device from a remote location.

In some embodiments of the present invention a Device Control and Vend API allows applications to enable and disable access to the device and track click counts. The Device Control and Vend API may provide an RCD with the following controls 

Enable Disable Device of Function this may allow an RCD to enable or disable access to the device as a whole or by function to enforce individual user privileges. In some exemplary embodiments the functions listed in Table 3 may be selectively enabled or disabled by an application.

Report Clickes Used at the end of a successful job the clicks used may be reported back to an RCD including 

Debit Mode in these embodiments when an application enables the device it may specify if the current job requires authorization. If so the job will be spooled to memory and click information e.g. as defined in Table 4 will be sent to an RCD. The RCD will then notify the device if the job should be deleted or output sent. At this point the application also has the option of changing job parameters. If the application does not require authorization the job will continue as normal and a click report will be sent at the end of the job.

Print Job Accounting in these embodiments an RCD may wish to monitor print jobs along with walk up functions. For print job accounting an IDev may monitor all incoming print jobs and send accounting data in the PJL header to an RCD for verification before printing the job. The RCD will evaluate the accounting data or lack thereof and inform the IDev to continue with or to cancel the job.

Report on Unidentified Jobs in these embodiments an RCD may also wish to monitor print jobs that it cannot associate to a specific user such as device reports and incoming fax jobs. The RCD can register to receive click counts for all unidentified jobs so that it may bill them to a general account.

In some embodiments of the present invention a Device Management API allows a network application to remotely setup and manage the IDev. In exemplary embodiments the Device Management API may provide an RCD with the following controls 

The above groupings are provided only as an exemplary embodiment detailing which settings should be included. In some embodiments actual API s should be grouped by functional areas since there may be overlap between Key Operator settings and web page settings.

In some embodiments an Internal Accounting API may allow an RCD application to configure internal accounting and report click counts. In some exemplary embodiments an Internal Accounting API may include 

Some embodiments of the present invention may comprise a Font and Form Management API which allows an RCD application to remotely download and manage fonts and forms in mass storage. In some exemplary embodiments a Font and Form Management API may provide an RCD with the following controls 

In some embodiments of the present invention a Firmware Management API may allow an RCD or network application to remotely download and manage the IDev firmware. In some exemplary embodiments a Firmware Management API may provide an RCD e.g. a server with the following controls 

In some embodiments of the present invention device function API s allow an RCD application to use existing IDev functionality to provide new custom solutions.

In some embodiments an RCD can change the default values on the IDev or the values for the current job. For the current job the RCD may also specify if scan parameters may be modified by the user or not. If one RCD application e.g. Access Control specifies that a parameter cannot be changed and then a second application e.g. Document Management tries to set the parameter a notification may be sent to the second application and the setting will not be changed.

In some embodiments print jobs may be submitted by RCD applications using standard printing channels. In some exemplary embodiments a Print API may provide an RCD with the following additional control 

In some embodiments of the present invention a Copy API may provide an RCD with the following exemplary controls 

In some embodiments an RCD can change the default values on the IDev or the values for the current job. For the current job the RCD may also specify if copy parameters may be modified by the user or not.

In some embodiments of the present invention a Document Filing API may provide an RCD with the following exemplary controls 

Allowing external applications to control an IDev opens up the IDev to new security vulnerabilities. In embodiments of the present invention that provide some security measures the following exemplary items are security concerns that may be addressed by the RCD interface.

Access to RCD interfaces may be limited to valid applications. Embodiments provide extensive access and control of the IDev which poses a significant security risk. The interface of these embodiments may be protected from access by attackers while maintaining ease of setup and use for valid solutions.

Confidential data e.g. user credentials and job data may be protected during network transfer. User credentials and job data may be secured during network transfer to ensure that it cannot be stolen an intruder cannot monitor device activity and a man in the middle attack cannot change messages. IDevs may support Secure Sockets Layer SSL and other connections to ensure data is safe while being communicated between the IDev and RCD applications.

Administrators may have the ability to lock down IDev access. For users with strict security policies administrators may have the ability to disable access by RCDs or limit access to specific applications. Administrators may have an option to register the limited applications that they wish to access the IDev interfaces.

RCD applications may ensure the IDev is not being spoofed. The RCD may be able to authenticate an IDev that it is contract with it to ensure an intruder cannot imitate the IDev to collect network configuration and password information monitor file folder structures of a document management system or spoof security settings and DSK status of the IDev.

An RCD may ensure that the server is not being spoofed. The IDev must be able to authenticate all RCDs that it is in contact with to ensure that an intruder is not spoofing the RCD s IP address. By pretending to be the RCD an intruder could steal user credentials redirect scanned documents change device settings or firmware or bring down the access control system either to provide access to unauthorized users or initiate a denial of service attack for valid users .

Access control vend applications may not be compromised when an RCD is unavailable. When the RCD is unavailable it may not be acceptable to provide open access to the device. If the RCD is unavailable at startup or becomes unavailable at anytime e.g. someone disconnects a network cable the IDev may immediately be disabled and an error message displayed.

An administrator may be able to adjust a security level based on company and application requirements. Security requirements can have a large impact on the time it takes to develop an RCD application and the resources required to implement the solution. Users using some embodiments may range from a small business with one IDev no IT staff and a simple scan or print application to a large government office using access control and audit trails to track all device activity. The security measures used to protect IDev interfaces may be adjustable by the administrator to match the target environment.

The IDev and RCD applications may be able to hand off user credentials. Users may be prompted to login at multiple points throughout a job. For example an access control application or accounting application may control total device access the IDev may have user authentication enabled for Image Send and a document management application may require user login before showing a folder list. In many environments all of these applications will use a common user database. In some embodiments it is therefore desirable for the applications to pass user credentials to each other so that each one does not have to repeat the authentication process.

Some embodiments of the present invention may be described with reference to . These embodiments comprise an IDev only which is configured to interact with an RCD such as a server through a communications link. The IDev comprises a user interface which comprises a user input device such as a keypad one or more buttons knobs or switches or a touch screen panel and a display which may comprise user input device in the form of a touch screen panel.

IDev will typically be capable of performing one or more imaging functions including but not limited to scanning printing copying facsimile transmission sending and receiving and others.

These embodiments further comprise a communications link which may be a wired connection as shown in comprising a network cable a Universal Serial Bus USB cable a serial cable a parallel cable a powerline communication connection such as a HomePlug connection or other wired connections. Alternatively the communications link may comprise a wireless connection such as an IEEE 802.11 b compliant connection a Bluetooth connection an Infrared Data Association IrDA connection or some other wireless connection.

The operation of some IDev embodiments may be explained with reference to . In these embodiments menu data is received from an RCD not shown in which is connected to the IDev via the communication link through a wired or wireless connection. This menu data is then displayed on the IDev user interface display . This display of remote menu data is intended to prompt a user to make an input on the user interface input device .

IDevs of these embodiments are further configured to accept input from a user in response to a display of remote menu data and communicate that user input to an RCD. In some embodiments this user input data will be processed by an RCD. This may comprise running an application on the RCD. This processing may also comprise accessing and communicating data that is stored on the RCD.

The IDevs of these embodiments are further configured to receive data resulting from processing the user input data. This may comprise data generated by an application running on the RCD in response to the user input. The IDev may also receive data that was stored on an RCD such as a file server in response to processing the user input.

Once the IDev has received the processed data the IDev may perform a native function in response to the data or using the data. For example and not be way of limitation the IDev may print a document that was stored on the RCD and modified on the RCD according to the user input. As another non limiting example the IDev may activate or enable functions e.g. scanning copying printing fax transmission on the IDev in response to the receipt of processed data.

Some more specific IDev embodiments may be explained with reference to . In these embodiments the IDev is configured to receive menu data formatted in a markup language from an RCD. The communication link by which the menu data is communicated may be established and maintained using a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP . The markup language may comprise terms from Hypertext Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML Wireless Markup Language WML Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHTML and or other languages.

Once the menu data is received it may be displayed on the IDev user interface display . As in previously described embodiments the menu data is typically intended to prompt user input on IDev user interface . Display of the remotely stored menu data may be accomplished with a browser application that is native to the IDev .

In these embodiments the IDev is further configured to route user input received though its user interface to an RCD. The RCD that receives the user input may then run an application or otherwise process the user input and return the results of the processing to the IDev . Accordingly the IDev is further configured to receive processed data from an RCD. In some embodiments the IDev may perform one or more functions in response to the receipt of processed data.

Some embodiments of the present invention may be explained with reference to . These embodiment comprise an RCD which has a communications link . Communications link may be a wired connection as shown in comprising a network cable a Universal Serial Bus USB cable a serial cable a parallel cable a powerline communication connection such as a HomePlug connection or other wired connections. Alternatively the communications link may comprise a wireless connection such as an IEEE 802.11 b compliant connection a Bluetooth connection an Infrared connection such as those defined in the Infrared Data Association IRDA standard or some other wireless connection. In some embodiments RCD may further comprise a data storage device which is typically a hard drive but may also be an optical drive device such as an array of compact disk drives flash memory or some other storage device.

Embodiments of RCD may be further described with reference to . In these embodiments RCD comprises a processor for processing data and running programs such as operating systems and applications. The RCD may further comprise memory which may be in the form of Random Access Memory RAM and Read Only Memory ROM . Generally any applications processed by processor will be loaded into memory . The RCD may further comprise a network interface which allows the RCD to communicate with other devices such as an IDev . In some embodiments the RCD may also comprise a user interface but this is not required in many embodiments. Storage may be used to store applications and data that may be accessed by an IDev of embodiments of the present invention. Processor memory storage network interface and optionally user interface are typically linked by a system bus to enable data transfer between each component. Communications link may couple the RCD to other devices via network interface .

In some embodiments described with reference to an RCD may comprise menu data stored on storage device or in memory . This menu data may be configured for display on an IDev user interface . Menu data may be stored in many formats and configurations. In some embodiments menu data may take the form of terms expressed with a markup language. The markup language may comprise terms from Hypertext Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML Wireless Markup Language WML Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHTML and or other languages. In these embodiments menu data may be sent through a communications link to an IDev . Accordingly menu data configured for display on an IDev is stored on an RCD .

An RCD of some embodiments will be further configured to receive user input obtained through the user interface of an IDev and transferred to the RCD over communications links and . Once this input data is received at an RCD the input data may be processed . This processing may comprise conversion of the data to a new format execution of commands contained within the data or some other process. Once the input data has been processed the processed output may be sent back to the IDev where the processed output may be used in an IDev process or function.

In some embodiments as described with reference to an RCD may send menu data configured for an IDev display using a markup language. The markup language menu data is then received at the IDev and displayed to a user. Typically this will prompt the user to enter an input on the IDev user interface . This user input will then be sent by the IDev to the RCD . The RCD will then receive the input data prompted by the display of the menu data on the IDev . Once received the input data may be processed on the RCD . Processing may comprise the selection recordation and or modification of a form document or other data stored on RCD the authorization of a user identified by the user input the translation of a document input by the user generation of a map or other directions related to user input or some other process or function.

Some embodiments of the present invention may be described with reference to and . These embodiments comprise at least one RCD and a plurality of IDevs . In these embodiments at least one of the IDevs comprises a user interface with a display and user input panel that is integral with the display e.g. touch screen or a separate input unit. RCD is connected to IDevs by a communications link and network to enable data transmission between RCD and IDevs 

In these embodiments menu data is stored on RCD and sent to at least one of the IDevs where the menu data is displayed on a user interface. Any of IDevs that receive the menu data are configured to accept and transmit user input to an RCD . Once the user input data is received at the RCD the data may be processed as discussed in previously described embodiments. The result of processing may then be sent back to any combination of the IDevs 

In these embodiments a single RCD may be used to provide processing power resources and functionality to a plurality of IDevs without reproducing these resources in each IDev. In some embodiments data generated by input on one IDev may be directed to another IDev for processed data output or final processing.

Some embodiments of the present invention may comprise multi language menu support. Some of these embodiments illustrated in allow for an initial selection or identification of a user preferred language. This selection may comprise user input to select a preferred language. This step may also comprise an automatic identification of a user preferred language which may be achieved by a user identification profile linked to a language a language identification based on the text of a scanned document a code printed on a scanned document or some other identification scheme.

Once the language has been selected or otherwise identified the selection identification data is sent to an RCD where the selection is used to identify language specific menu data that is sent to the IDev for display . A user may then respond to the selected language menu data with input which may be used to invoke native IDev functions or may be sent to the RCD for any necessary processing. An RCD may then process the input data and send any process input to a destination such as the IDev an e mail address a memory location or some other destination.

In some embodiments of the present invention customized user interface information may be sent to an IDev from an RCD. Some of these embodiments may be described with reference to . These embodiments comprise an IDev that may be a multi function peripheral device MFP or a single function device. The IDev may comprise a user interface UI panel . The UI panel may comprise input buttons and a display device or the UI panel may comprise a touch panel system with or without buttons . The touch panel system may function as both an input device and a display device . User input and display may also be performed through a separate UI device which may be connected to the IDev by a communication link such as a Universal Serial Bus USB connection a network cable a wireless connection or some other communications link. The separate UI device may or may not comprise a display or a touch panel system with or without buttons.

These embodiments further comprise an RCD that is linked to the IDev via a communications link such as a network connection. This network connection may be a typical wired connection or a wireless link. The RCD may have access to storage that may in some embodiments reside on the RCD and in alternative embodiments may reside external to the RCD .

In some embodiments the IDev may expose an application programming interface API that may allow an application resident on the RCD to gather user credentials also considered login information or login data through the front panel of the IDev . In some embodiments a user may log into the IDev using the front panel . In alternate embodiments a user may log into the IDev using the separate UI device . Exemplary separate UI devices may comprise a card reader a biometric device a panel similar in function to the IDev front panel or any other device capable of input and or output. Login data may be sent via the communications link to the RCD . Exemplary login data may comprise user name user password user permissions user personal identification number user biometric data user credentials or other user identifying data. Based on the login data the RCD may access the storage to obtain customized user interface information associated with the login data. The customized user interface information may comprise for example user interface content user interface format user interface language and other parameters preferences and information required to display or otherwise present a custom user interface.

A customized user interface may be generated by a user a system administrator or any other person associated with the user and the IDev . In some embodiments the customized user interface may comprise a user s preferences or functional needs. The customized user interface may in alternative embodiments comprise an interface to the most recently accessed functions by the user. The customized user interface may in some embodiments reflect restrictions on the IDev functions available to the user. In some embodiments the customized user interface may comprise the language preference of the user.

Some embodiments of the present invention comprise a user interface customization tool. The user interface customization tool may comprise methods and systems for defining user information and associated user interface preferences. The user interface customization tool may also comprise storage for the user information and associated user interface preferences. The user interface customization tool may be used to define user preference data or customized user interfaces. User preference data may be used to fill in portions of a user interface template thereby generating a customized user interface. Exemplary user preferences may include user interface language output file format and output file destination path. Customized user interfaces may define the content and layout of each user interface screen. In some embodiments a customized user interface may show a limited set of predefined standard user interface components in a preferred layout. In alternative embodiments a customized user interface may show user interface components for example buttons dialog boxes and other user interface components associated with specific tasks and parameters. In some embodiments the user interface customization tool may also associate the user login information or data that may be used to associate user interface information with a user. In some embodiments the user interface customization tool may comprise a database manager for managing and storing user preference data or customized user interfaces.

The RCD may send the customized user interface information via the communications link to the IDev . The customized user interface information may comprise in some embodiments user interface screens which may be displayed on the IDev display device which in some embodiments may comprise a touch panel. In other embodiments the user interface screens may be displayed on the separate UI device which in some embodiments may comprise a touch panel. In some embodiments the user interface screens may comprise web pages that may be displayed using a web browser embedded in the IDev . In some embodiments of the present invention the web pages may comprise instructions written in a markup language.

The IDev may display a customized user interface comprising the customized user interface information. The logged in user may then interact with the IDev and the RCD through the customized user interface presented on the IDev display device or the separate UI device . The input received through the customized user interface may be sent to the RCD through the communications link . The RCD may process the input and send a processed message or data to the IDev . The IDev may perform a function in response to the received processed message or data. In some embodiments the function may effectuate the presentation of an additional page of the customized user interface on the IDev display device or the separate UI device .

The operation of some IDev embodiments may be explained with reference to . In these embodiments user based customized user interface data also considered information is received at the IDev from the RCD . This customized user interface data is then displayed on the IDev user interface display or . The display of the user interface is intended to prompt a user to make an input on the user interface input device either the display device the separate UI device or the front panel buttons .

IDevs of these embodiments may be configured to accept input from a user in response to the display of the customized user interface and communicate that user input to the RCD . In some embodiments this user input data will be processed by the RCD . This may comprise running an application on the RCD . This processing may also comprise accessing and communicating data that is stored on the RCD .

The IDevs of these embodiments are further configured to receive data resulting from processing the user input data. This may comprise data generated by an application running on the RCD in response to the user input. The IDev may also receive data that was stored on an RCD such as a file server in response to processing the user input.

Once the IDev has received the processed data the IDev may perform a native function in response to the data or using the data. For example and not be way of limitation the IDev may print a document that was stored on the RCD and modified on the RCD according to the user input. As another non limiting example the IDev may activate or enable functions e.g. scanning copying printing fax transmission on the IDev in response to the receipt of processed data.

In some embodiments described with reference to an RCD may comprise customized user interface data stored on storage device or in memory. This customized user interface data may be configured for display on an IDev user interface or . Customized user interface data may be stored in many formats and configurations. In some embodiments customized user interface data may take the form of terms expressed with a markup language. The markup language may comprise terms from Hypertext Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML Wireless Markup Language WML Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHTML and or other languages.

In these embodiments the RCD may receive user login data from the IDev via the communications link . The RCD may then retrieve from the storage device or memory the customized user interface data associated with the user login data. The customized user interface data may be sent through the communications link to the IDev from the RCD .

The RCD of some embodiments will be further configured to receive user input obtained through the customized user interface of the IDev and transferred to the RCD over communications links . Once this input data is received at an RCD the input data may be processed . This processing may comprise conversion of the data to a new format execution of commands contained within the data or some other process. Once the input data has been processed the processed output may be sent back to the IDev where the processed output may be used in an IDev process or function.

Alternative embodiments of the present invention may be described with reference to . These embodiments comprise an IDev that may be a multi function peripheral device MFP or a single function device. The IDev may comprise a user interface UI panel . The UI panel may comprise input buttons and a display device or the UI panel may comprise a touch panel system with or without buttons . The touch panel system may function as both an input device and a display device . User input and display may also be performed through a separate UI device which may be connected to the IDev by a communication link such as a Universal Serial Bus USB connection a network cable a wireless connection or some other communications link. The separate UI device may or may not comprise a display or a touch panel system with or without buttons.

These embodiments further comprise an authentication server that is linked to the IDev via a communications link such as a network connection. This network connection may be a typical wired connection or a wireless link. The authentication server may have access to storage that may in some embodiments reside on the authentication server and in alternative embodiments may reside external to the authentication server .

In some embodiments a user may log into the IDev using the front panel . In alternate embodiments a user may log into the IDev using the separate UI device . Login data may be sent via the communications link to the authentication server . Login data may comprise user name and permissions. Based on the login data the authentication server may access the storage to obtain user permissions associated with the login data. The user permission may be sent via the communications link to the IDev .

These embodiments further comprise an RCD that is linked to the IDev via a communications link such as a network connection. This network connection may be a typical wired connection or a wireless link. The RCD may have access to storage that may in some embodiments reside on the RCD and in alternative embodiments may reside external to the RCD . The user permission may be sent via the communications link from the IDev to the RCD .

Based on the user permission the RCD may access the storage to obtain customized user interface information associated with the user permission. The customized user interface information may comprise for example user interface content user interface format user interface language and other parameters preferences and information required to generate a custom user interface.

A customized user interface may be generated by a user a system administrator or any other person associated with the user and the IDev . In some embodiments the customized user interface may comprise a user s preferences or functional needs. The customized user interface may in alternative embodiments comprise an interface to the most recently accessed functions by the user. The customized user interface may in some embodiments reflect restrictions on the IDev functions available to the user. In some embodiments the customized user interface may comprise the language preference of the user.

The RCD may send the customized user interface information via the communications link to the IDev . The customized user interface information may comprise in some embodiments user interface screens which may be displayed on the IDev display device which in some embodiments may comprise a touch panel. In other embodiments the user interface screens may be displayed on the separate UI device which in some embodiments may comprise a touch panel. In some embodiments the user interface screens may comprise web pages that may be displayed using a web browser embedded in the IDev . In some embodiments of the present invention the web pages may comprise instructions written in a markup language.

The IDev may display a customized user interface as determined by the customized user interface information. The logged in user may then interact with the IDev and the RCD through the customized user interface presented on the IDev display device or the separate UI device . The input received through the customized user interface may be sent to the RCD through the communications link . The RCD may process the input and send a processed message or data to the IDev . The IDev may perform a function in response to the received processed message or data. In some embodiments the function may effectuate the presentation of an additional page of the customized user interface on the IDev display device or the separate UI device .

Some embodiments of the present invention may be described with reference to . In these embodiments user login data may be received at an IDev for example when a user logs into the IDev. The user login data may be sent from the IDev to an authentication server . The authentication server may determine user permissions based on the user login data. In some embodiments the authentication server may access a database or other data structure stored externally or internally to determine the user permissions. The authentication server may send the user permissions to the IDev . The IDev may then send the user permissions to an RCD . In some embodiments the RCD may be a user interface server. The RCD may retrieve customized user interface information based on the user permissions. In some embodiments the RCD may access a database or other data structure stored externally or internally to retrieve the customized user interface information. The RCD may then send the customized user interface information to the IDev .

The IDev may display a customized user interface on the IDev display device or the separate UI device according to the customized user interface information received from the RCD . The customized user interface information may comprise in some embodiments user interface screens which may be displayed on the IDev display device which in some embodiments may comprise a touch panel. In other embodiments the user interface screens may be displayed on the separate UI device which in some embodiments may comprise a touch panel. In some embodiments the user interface screens may comprise web pages that may be displayed using a web browser embedded in the IDev . In some embodiments of the present invention the web pages may comprise instructions written in a markup language. Customized user interface data may be stored in many formats and configurations. In some embodiments customized user interface data may take the form of terms expressed with a markup language. The markup language may comprise terms from Hypertext Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML Wireless Markup Language WML Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHTML and or other languages.

The terms and expressions which have been employed in the foregoing specification are used therein as terms of description and not of limitation and there is no intention in the use of such terms and expressions of excluding equivalence of the features shown and described or portions thereof it being recognized that the scope of the invention is defined and limited only by the claims which follow.

