---

title: Multimedia search system
abstract: A database search system that retrieves multimedia information in a flexible, user friendly system. The search system uses a multimedia database consisting of text, picture, audio and animated data. That database is searched through multiple graphical and textual entry paths. Those entry paths include an idea search, a title finder search, a topic tree search, a picture explorer search, a history timeline search, a world atlas search, a researcher's assistant search, and a feature articles search.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07664775&OS=07664775&RS=07664775
owner: Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc.
number: 07664775
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060721
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 150 494 U.S. Pat. No. 7 082 437 and Ser. No. 11 150 813 U.S. Pat. No. 7 085 778 both of which were filed Jun. 13 2005 and are continuations of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 103 814 filed Mar. 25 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 978 277 issued Dec. 20 2005 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 08 202 985 filed Feb. 28 1994 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 546 399 issued Apr. 8 2003 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 08 113 955 filed Aug. 31 1993 now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 07 426 917 filed Oct. 26 1989 now U.S. Pat. No. 5 241 671 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. U.S. application Ser. No. 08 202 985 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 546 399 is also a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 07 848 960 now abandoned which was the National Stage of International Application No. PCT US90 06098 filed Oct. 26 1990 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 07 426 917 now U.S. Pat. No. 5 241 671. Attention is also drawn to U.S. application Ser. No. 11 150 812 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 051 018 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Limitations exhibited by some software products include the lack of interactive search tools adapted for non expert users and the lack of interactive search tool that fully explore and exploit the full capabilities of a CD ROM database.

An example of some of the above limitations is demonstrated by the Grolier CD ROM based encyclopaedia. The Grolier product provides an interactive search tool that allows for the access of textual data through four search modes. The first search mode involves a Browse capability where the user types in the first few letters or words of a particular topic and the software then displays a menu listing the article titles that are closest in the alphabet to the search terms. The user can then scan forward or backward through the alphabetically arranged titles until an article of interest is found.

The second search mode is known as the Browse Word Index. In this mode the user selects the word occurring in any of the articles in the display. The software then sorts entries in descending order of the words based upon the number of times that the specific search word occurs in the text. A third search mode involves expanding the Browse Word Index Mode to combine Boolean operators such as and or or not and the fourth search mode involves linking terms appearing in the articles that are designated by capital letters. In particular by depressing the RETURN key while the cursor is located on the linking word the search software will retrieve a menu of article titles centered on that linked term.

However the Grolier system only accesses textual data by means of text based entry paths. No facility exists for taking advantage of the CD ROM s capacity to store pictures sound or video information.

This shortcoming of a full text graphics interactive search system is not overcome by those products that are directed to searching graphical databases. That is because the graphics oriented systems fail to either include any text based entry paths or text entry paths that would enable the user to employ the full capacity of the CD ROM.

For example The World GeoGraph computer program provides a graphics based atlas exploration program where a user can search through multiple layers each layer having a greater degree of detail of an on screen map. The GeoGraph database is also integrated with information relating to each country of the atlas and the search program includes a feature for using plain English selection rules contained in dialogs to search and sort information pertaining to the maps. The World GeoGraph program however pertains to a textual search of only that textual information that explains the graphical database and the text information is retrieved only by means of a single entry path. World GeoGraph thereby does not appear to provide full textual search capabilities of an entire textual database that is distinct from the graphical database.

In view of the foregoing it should be apparent that a need still exists for a database search system that retrieves multimedia information in a flexible user friendly system. It is therefore a primary object of the invention to provide a search system in which a multimedia database consisting of text picture audio and animated data is searched through multiple graphical and textual entry paths.

It is a further object of the invention to provide for a search system wherein both the textual and graphical entry paths are interactive.

It is yet an additional object of the invention to provide for a search system where the textual and graphical entry paths are interrelated such that textual information is fully accessible from the graphical entry paths and graphical information is fully accessible from the textual entry paths.

It is still an additional object of the invention to provide for a search system where the graphical and textual information are contained in a single database and the information consists of words phrases numbers letters maps charts pictures moving images animations and audio information.

It is yet an additional object of the invention to provide for a search system which is stored on a CD ROM disc.

It is yet a further object of the invention to provide for a search system which is adapted to operate on a micro computer in either a stand alone capacity or on a network.

It is still a further object of the invention to provide for a search system where one of the graphical entry paths involves interactively narrowing a search of graphical images to a point in which related textual information about each image becomes accessible.

It is still an additional object of the invention to provide for a search system wherein the textual search can be narrowed to a point where graphical information related to the uncovered text is accessible.

It is a further object of the invention to provide for a search system where both textual and graphical entry paths include functions which enhance the efficacy of the searches and the accessibility of information retrieved from those searches.

It is also an object of the invention to provide for a search system in which an idea search entry path is provided which can retrieve textual information stored in stem indexes in the database.

It is yet a further object of the invention to provide for a search system that compares misspelled search terms with definitions stored in a database dictionary. The search system then automatically suggests alternative spellings to the user.

It is an additional object of the invention to provide for a new list function if the initial information uncovered by the search does not meet the user s expectation. The system will then suggest alternative terms for ambiguous search terms.

It is a further object of the invention to provide for a search system where phrases paragraphs or sentences can be entered by the user to be searched. The entered search terms are then compared to a list of stop words and those stop words are then automatically eliminated such that a search is performed only on particular terms occurring in the phrases sentences or paragraphs.

It is still a further object of the invention to provide for a search system whereby phrases can be searched together rather than being broken up as a group of individual searches for key terms.

It is yet an additional object of the invention to provide for a system whereby the graphical and textual information comprise an encyclopaedia. The textual information of the database also includes a dictionary a thesaurus a glossary and a stored fact index.

It is still another object of the invention to provide for a search system where one of the textual entry paths consists of a title finder search.

It is a further object of the invention to provide for a search system where one of the textual entry paths consists of a topic tree program that divides all textual information into topics sub topics and so on in order to assist a user in finding an article of interest.

It is yet a further object of the invention to provide for a picture explorer entry path which enables a user to find pictures and then retrieve related textual information for each picture.

It is yet a further object of the invention to provide for a search system where one of the textual entry paths consists of a history timeline search program.

It is an additional object of the invention to provide for a search system wherein a portion of the graphical and textual entry paths consist of a world atlas entry path.

It is still a further object of the invention to provide for a textual entry path which highlights particular feature articles. This entry path takes a user directly to one of a plurality of articles located in the search system.

It is also an object of the invention to provide for a search system where one of the textual entry paths consists of a researcher s assistant program.

Briefly described these and other objects of the invention are accomplished by providing a search system for retrieving information comprising multiple textual entry paths for searching textual information and multiple graphical entry paths for searching graphical information such that the search system retrieves information through both the textual and graphical entry paths.

The textual and graphical entry paths are made up of eight separate and interrelated entry paths such that textual information is fully accessible from the graphical entry paths and graphical information is fully accessible from the textual entry paths. A first textual entry path consists of the Idea Search entry path which retrieves textual information stored in the stem indexes in the database. Each stem is identified with a root and stems are linked to each root so that they represent all related endings for that root. Each stem is related to units of textual information in the database. Stem terms are then concatenated by the Idea Search in order to map the stems to the same idea. The concatenation step involves linking the stems together based on grammatical linkages and based on thesaurus linkages. Information retrieved from the Idea Search is then ranked based upon two coefficients exhaustivity and exclusivity. Exhaustivity measures the number of occurrences for that stem in the database. The exclusivity coefficient measures the degree to which that stem is related to the idea. The exclusivity and exhaustivity coefficients are then calculated combined with other stems and calculated for each article. A list of articles is then ranked based upon the coefficients in order of relevance to the search terms.

Another textual entry path consists of a title finder search. The title finder assists the user in uncovering articles stored in the search system. Those article titles are uncovered either by moving through an alphabetical list of article titles until a desired title is located clicking a letter tab for the first letter of the subject so that a list of article titles having the first letter is provided or typing in the article title name such that the page listing the article title is then displayed.

One of the graphical entry paths consists of the picture explorer which enables the user to find pictures and then retrieve related textual information for the picture. In operation the picture explorer is provided in three modes a picture tour mode where pictures are presented in random order a picture finder mode which allows the user to select from a list of alphabetically ordered pictured captions or a picture search mode where the user searches picture captions by entering search terms and having the computer search those entered search terms. A further textual entry path consists of a history timeline program. The timeline displays events on a graphical timeline in order that a user may select an event and retrieve further information about that event. The timeline is divided into a year interval bar major event boxes and a president s bar. Any one of the elements on the bars are activated by a user in order to retrieve related textual information.

A further entry path which is graphically and textually based is the world atlas entry path. This program enables the user to search maps of an atlas. The atlas can be searched by having the user either identify a place name or by scanning or rotating the atlas. If the place name search is implemented the program draws a corresponding map around the specified place. The atlas can then be viewed at multiple levels of increasing detail for any part of the atlas. Textual information related to any place labeled on the atlas is then retrieved.

A further entry path consists of the researcher s assistant program. The researcher s assistant contains subject matter categories divided into topics and the topics are then divided into assignments. Each assignment is then ranked by its level of difficulty.

Finally the invention includes a textual entry path which highlights particular feature articles. This entry path is designed to take the user directly to one of a plurality of articles located in the database.

With these and other objects advantages and features of the invention that may become hereinafter apparent the nature of the invention may be more clearly understood by reference to the following detailed description of the invention the appended claims and to the several drawings attached herein.

In the context of this disclosure and the claims appended hereto references to an information database can apply to any type of data any type of data format or any type of storage medium. A preferred embodiment of this invention involves CD ROM technology. However the system can also include DVI CD I or any other suitable optical memory devices. The system is adapted to run on any computer device. As an example the system may run on an IBM AT or other 286 386 or 486 based computer having similar characteristics as a stand alone unit. In a network environment for example the preferred embodiment can run on an IBM host and on a Novell communications network. However any computer having sufficient processing speed and memory capability can be employed.

That system also may include a VGA card and a VGA or multi sync type monitor a 20 MB Hard Disk Drive a Speech Adaptor and Card and a mouse with related software. Other features for the preferred hardware can include a computer with at least 1 MB RAM a DOS Version 3.3 or later release and a CD ROM drive with a controller card. Compatible CD ROM drives include the CD V100 by Sony Corp. or models by Hitachi or AMDEK. Any other compatible CD ROM drives must use the MS DOS standards CCD ROM extension .

Although the system forming the present invention can be used for any application a preferred embodiment is as a multimedia encyclopaedia database and search system. The database for the preferred embodiment consists of approximately 8.8 million words 5 200 articles 26 023 concise capsule articles 63 503 entries in a Fact Index 65 000 entries in a full database dictionary 1500 glossary terms and a thesaurus.

The database also consists of 15 000 graphics comprising photographs charts diagrams and animations. Those graphics can include low resolution images depending on the capabilities of the hardware. Supported graphic standards include VGA 640 480 16 colors and super VGA images 640 480 256 colors though standards within or beyond these are also envisioned for this product. Nothing contained herein precludes the possibility of releasing this invention on computers which support different graphics standards. The preferred embodiment includes 60 minutes of audio including 1 500 glossary terms and other audio selections and some 45 animation sequences. The amount of audio and animation is expected to increase depending on the hardware and software capabilities.

Referring to the Figures wherein like references refer to like elements illustrates a functional flow chart of the logical operations of the Main Menu program . It is from the Main Menu that a user can enter the multimedia database in order to view articles pictures illustrations and other special features including sound and moving pictures.

There are eight entry paths available from the Main Menu program into the database. Those paths include the Idea Search the Title Finder the Picture Explorer the Topic Tree the Feature Articles the World Atlas the History Timeline and the Researcher s Assistant . Additionally upon turning on the Main Menu program various functions become available to the user. Those functions include a Notes function a Close command and a Help function not illustrated . Brief descriptions of each of the entry paths are provided below.

The Idea Search entry path assists the user in finding information regarding any topic for exploration. In this entry path the user types in words questions or descriptions for the search causing the computer to search for any articles related to that search request.

The Title Finder provides the user with an alphabetical list of all articles in the database. The user can then choose the title of an article that he wants to review by either scrolling through a title list typing in a desired title or browsing through the title list after choosing a letter tab.

The Picture Explorer entry path allows the user to view pictures that are stored in the database. The Picture Explorer accesses information in three modes 1 by allowing a user to randomly browse through a collection of pictures 2 by displaying a list of captions and enabling a user to select corresponding pictures or 3 by allowing a user to enter a description of the picture which then triggers the entry path to automatically search the terms of that description for corresponding picture captions.

The Topic Tree entry path provides the user with both a means for browsing through a list of topics and sub topics and also for iteratively refining the topical subject matter. Specifically Topic Tree divides all of the information in the database into lists of topics and sub topics so that by browsing through successive lists the user can iteratively narrow his search until he finds an article of interest.

The Feature Articles entry path provides a selection of special interest or focus articles for the user. The user then picks one of the article titles in the menu in order to be taken directly to the article.

The World Atlas entry path draws maps of the earth after interactive selection by the user. The maps can be enlarged or contracted rotated or viewed along longitudinal and latitudinal lines. Moreover a place finder function is available which helps the user choose a place on the map. Once that place name is selected the computer will then draw a map around the selected location. By then clicking a place label with a mouse on the map an article corresponding to that label can be accessed from the database.

The History Timeline entry path enables the user to browse through a timeline containing references to historical events. Choosing any of those events will cause the system to provide a summary of the event and then list articles related to that event historical person etc.

The Researcher s Assistant entry path contains a set of research categories and sub topics. Each topic in turn includes three assignments which are classified according to level of difficulty. The user may then choose one of those assignments which then refers him to the Main Menu to complete his research.

The Main Menu also includes several functions. The functions are Notes which allows the user to take notes the Research Path function which opens a window on the screen displaying a list of previous steps that the user has taken in his searches the Last Screen function which backs up along the research path one step to return the user to the last screen he saw and the Getting Started function which provides a step by step tutorial that guides the user through the multimedia database. A Close command also is available in order to exit the system.

When turning the system on the Main Menu display is shown. The user may then select at step any of the above identified entry paths or functions. The selection activates the designated function or entry path program.

Upon exiting from a selected entry path or function the user can return to the Main Menu display . Upon choosing the Close command the user exits the system at step . The Close command is always available as an option in the Main Menu display. Hence the program can always be exited at any time the Main Menu display is available.

The Idea Search is entered by clicking a mouse over an associated icon in the Main Menu display . A call to the Idea Search program raises the Idea Search entry screen . The Idea Search entry display includes a number of functions located on a prompt line at the bottom of the screen. Those functions include Tools Notes Research Path Last Screen New Search Back and Main Menu . Some of the functions as denoted by the letter B return the user directly back to the search display when completed. Others however do not. A description of each of the functions will be provided in more detail below.

After the user has made a selection to enter search terms the user then types in those terms in a window on the display. The search terms can be entered as words phrases whole sentences or entire paragraphs. The only limitation is that these terms describe the topic or question to be searched. The user then clicks the mouse on the icon for the Go On command which tells the computer to begin searching. If a search word is misspelled the computer will then access an internal dictionary and an internal thesaurus stored in the database if it does not recognize the misspelled word. A check for misspelling thus occurs in step . If the word is found to be misspelled at step then the Idea Search will display a list of other spellings that closely approximate the misspelled word. The user may then use a mouse for example to click the proper word on the list which automatically makes the correction . The user then actuates the Go On command which causes the properly spelled word to be returned to the list of search terms at step and the system to execute the search on the correctly spelled word. The correctly spelled term will then be displayed in a list of the located items following their search at step . Details regarding step are provided in .

Items on the displayed list for example can be titles to articles containing the search terms. It is contemplated however that any information representing the search term can be represented in this list.

More particularly in addition to the items of the list the display screen shows search words that have actually been searched. Those words are highlighted to set them off from the non searched terms. The Idea Search entry path automatically decides which terms to highlight and which terms not to search based on a review of stop terms stored in the database. Examples of stop terms include what the and or punctuation etc. The items listed also are arranged in the display in order of relevance to the entered search terms. A further description of the relevance ranking algorithm is provided.

Some of the items listed are preceded by one or more asterisks. The asterisk s indicate that the adjacent item in the list is likely to contain highly relevant information. In order to choose the item the user can then move through the list using Up and Down arrow keys located on the display adjacent to the list. When a user sees the article that he wants he then clicks that article that is likely to have the best information about the search word.

Referring now to further details regarding the Idea Search are shown. In particular a screen is presented along with icons for several functions located on the prompt bar. The user selects any one of the functions by clicking a mouse on an appropriate icon representing that function. Those functions include Tools Notes Research Path Last Screen Back and Main Menu . A description for each function is provided with reference to .

If the user is interested in looking at the items on the list at step he can then move through the list of items as previously described and click the mouse on a desired item at step . As a result the user goes into the article program at step . If however the user does not see an item that he desires or wishes to search for different terms he branches at step to select the New Search mode . If the user then decides to pursue a new search he branches to the beginning of the Idea Search program . If however the user is only interested in improving his original search request he then clicks the icon representing the New List function .

The New List function improves the original search request by either providing non ambiguous alternate search terms or by suggesting alternate search strategies.

The ambiguous term check acts like a thesaurus. For example should the user type in the word rain alternate search terms for that word e.g. rainfall snow storm water weather would be listed on the display at step . The user may then click the desired non ambiguous terms in the list or enter the non ambiguous terms in the Idea Search window and then search for non ambiguous search terms see . Following the ambiguous term search the program then automatically returns the user to a new display list of the located non ambiguous terms see .

However if none of the listed non ambiguous alternate search terms presents a viable alternative the computer will then display the original search request and will also suggest ways to modify that request at step . To modify the search the user then retypes new search words that conform to the alternate strategies. The Go On command is then activated to generate a new search see .

The ambiguity check feature operates as follows suppose this search involves different forms of rainfall and the user types in the word rain . The list generated from the Idea Search might then include a list of articles entitled CLOUD MISSISSIPPI TENNESSEE ENGLAND and KANSAS. Although the search concerned rain the last four articles were included on the list because those articles contain sections on climate and weather. To improve upon that search therefore the New List function is selected.

The original request for rain will then reappear but will not be highlighted. The user can then move the cursor over the r in rain and click the mouse. As a result non ambiguous suggestions for the term rain will be presented. To improve the search one suggestion would be to change rain to forms of rain . Once the mouse is clicked over this suggestion and then the Go On is clicked the computer will begin a search for new articles which may relate more closely to rainfall .

If a term appears on the stop list in step then that term is deleted from the legal search terms actually searched by the computer at step . The computer then determines if all of the search terms have been reviewed by the stop list at step . If not it loops back for further stop checks at step . Once the entire search inquiry is reviewed and all the stop terms removed then the search terms are appropriately highlighted for subsequent display see If a search term is not found in the stop list or in the database an appropriate message is generated. The non existent term is also excluded from the search inquiry.

The entered search terms are then compared to a phrase list . The purpose of the phrase list is to avoid inefficient search strategies for terms that have a unique meaning when combined in a phrase. For example if the user wishes to search the phrase German Shepherd a database search of the individual terms would bring up information on the country Germany or men who watch flocks of sheep. Articles involving dogs would likely be ranked towards the bottom of the list. However if the phrase itself were searched the search may be more efficiently accomplished and more accurate results provided.

The phrase search is entered only when the software finds a phrase that matches phrases stored in an internal phrase list. The phrase search program then inquires do you want this display phrase terms phrase searched If the user answers yes then the system internally links the terms together by placing hyphens between adjacent phrase terms . Step involves comparing the linked terms to a phrase list. If the entered phrase is matched to the phrase list then the occurrences of that phrase are linked to the articles in the database . A discussion of how articles are linked and listed is provided with reference to . Once the phrase search is complete the program loops back to step to see if the user wishes to search additional phrases if the user does not then the program skips down to step .

Although not illustrated two other search modes are available. The expert mode allows users to search literals without having those literals subjected to the stop list or stemming discussed below . The expert mode is actuated when the user surrounds literals by quotation marks.

Furthermore the user also can designate priority search terms by typing at least one symbol next to a term. The computer will then rank the terms by priority so that those terms will be weighed in advance of the structured query. The user can also order multiple priorities by placing more than one sign.

Step involves the step of building the search inquiry structure through stem indexing. The purpose of stem indexing is to provide a search of not only the entered terms but all related terms. Accordingly if the user types in the word leaf in the search window at step stem indexing will link all other stems to the root leaf that exist in that index i.e. leaves leafing . Following stem indexing the stems are linked to a Basic Receiving Unit BRU in order to map the stem to the idea.

A BRU represents the lowest common denominator for the database. BRU s are discrete data elements defined by subject matter. Thus the size of BRU s may vary depending upon the amount of information for a distinct subject. In the encyclopaedia embodiment BRU s represent each of the subjects listed in the table of contents for an article. Accordingly when stems are concatenated at step to the BRU those stems are thus linked to a subject matter based data entity. The linked stems for the root are then concatenated at step .

Referring now to the remaining steps of the Idea Search algorithm are described. At steps and the concatenated stems are measured using two coefficients. The first coefficient involves the measure of exhaustivity of the search term. Exhaustivity represents a mathematical measure of the number of occurrences of the stem in the BRU s. The exclusivity coefficient involves the relatedness of the search term to the idea being searched.

An example of the difference between exhaustivity and exclusivity can be seen when comparing the term small to the term German . It is highly likely that small would have a high exhaustivity coefficient but low exclusivity coefficient. German would have the opposite result.

Once the coefficients are calculated they are then combined to provide a score for each BRU at step . The BRU s scores are then combined to provide article scores . The article titles are then ranked by relevance in step . As previously noted one or more asterisks may be appended to article titles in the lists. Asterisks denote articles whose combined coefficients scores exceed a pre set threshold . The list of article titles is then displayed at step same as step .

Referring now to the program for displaying the article is shown. The database of the instant invention as previously mentioned is particularly applicable for use as multimedia encyclopaedia. A large part of the encyclopaedia database consists of articles which contain text color photographs tables charts and maps as well as audio and animation data. The instant computer program is thereby designed so that the user may easily access the various types of data without losing track of his place in the encyclopaedia. Each screen is also set up to give the name of the article that is being viewed and the page number relative to that article. Side notes are available in the articles to indicate the focus of particular paragraphs of interest.

The text of the article is comprised of underlined and non underlined words. If the user places the mouse and clicks on any of the non underlined words an automatic dictionary definition for that word is displayed. Upon clicking it closed the dictionary window will then disappear and the user returns to the article. The underlined text designates glossary terms. By clicking an underlined word with the mouse a window appears showing the definition of that word. An audio pronunciation of that word also occurs. An audio sound icon is also displayed in the glossary window prompt line. The icon leaves the user with the option of hearing that word pronounced again.

Accompanying the text are numerous functions represented by icons. The functions include a Picture display function a More About function a Take Another Look function a Moving Picture display function and an Audio function. Each of the functions will be described in more detail below.

The article display program is entered at where the text of the article is immediately displayed . In addition to the previously mentioned text and functions represented by the article display program a plurality of functions are represented on prompt line . Those functions include the Main Menu function Notes Tools Print Research Path Last Screen Return to Entry Path and the Table of Contents . The user may select any of those functions at select step . Details regarding the operation of the various functions are discussed further in connection with .

Should the user wish to read the article in step he moves the mouse and or cursor to the Up Down icons or keys. If in reading the article the user does not understand a word or wishes to receive a further definition of that word he may then click the mouse on the word in question in step . The definition for that word is then automatically displayed at step .

The user may then choose a number of dictionary related functions in step including Tools and Notes . However should the user desire to return to the article he activates the Close command .

If the user wishes to obtain a glossary definition for an underlined word at he clicks the mouse on the underlined term in step . The underlined term as previously described is then displayed and the pronunciation of that term enunciated at step . The glossary window also provides the user with a variety of functions including Tools Notes and Audio . By actuating the Audio function the user can replay the enunciation of the glossary term. Activating the close command returns to the article display .

Articles are organized so that by activating an icon showing a pair of eyes the user calls the Take Another Look function . This function is used to explain a difficult concept through pictures or language that is simpler than that used in the article text. The prompt line in the Take Another Look function includes the Tools function Notes function or the Close command .

If a Picture icon represented by a camera is shown adjacent to text the user may activate an associated picture by clicking the icon on step . The picture is then displayed. Multiple pictures can be reviewed by clicking the mouse on up and down arrow icons .

The picture display mode also includes a number of functions to facilitate a review of the picture. The caption function for example provides a window over the picture describing the contents of that picture. The user is then presented with several functions for manipulating the caption. The move caption function moves the caption to the top of the screen so that the user can see the portion of the photograph or picture under the caption. By clicking the move caption icon again at step the caption is returned to the bottom of the window. Activating the Close command closes the window and the user can then return by clicking close again .

Finally pictures can also be viewed using an up close function . When activated the system enlarges the picture one or more levels. Activation of the close command will return the user to the article display.

If the text has an associated video icon then the user can activate a display of a still frame of that video at step by clicking the video icon with the mouse. The animation sequence commences by activation of the Go icon command . The Go command can be re activated again to review the same video. Any time the user wants to stop the animation he can click the mouse on an associated Stop icon . Once the animation has been stopped clicking the Go icon causes the animation to start again . Moreover to see the animation in a step by step sequence the user can employ step options which allow the animation to move one frame at a time backwards or forwards . Additionally the user has the option of repeating the entire animation. This occurs by clicking the Repeat icon . To exit the video animation function the user must activate the Go On command which returns him to the article display program entry point .

The final function available in the article display program is the See Also or Cross Word function . This function is displayed when there is material related to the article being displayed. If the user activates an appropriate icon for this function a list of related articles is displayed only if more than one related article exists. Otherwise the function takes the user directly to the related article . If the user then finds an article of interest he then calls that article .

Referring now to a functional flow diagram of the logical elements of the Tools function is illustrated. The Tools function includes five functions Glossary Bookmark Find a Word Dictionary and Cut and Paste . In addition a Close Tools command is available to close the Tool function . Brief descriptions of the Tools functions are set forth below.

The Glossary function operates in the same manner as described in . The Glossary function operates by first prompting the user at step to click on an underlined word. Once the word has been clicked a window then opens at and the word is spoken . By activating the Close Tools command the window is removed.

The bookmark function marks a specific place in the database so that a user can return to that place at a later point in his research. When the bookmark function is clicked on if there are no bookmarks the user is allowed to type in a bookmark in the database. Otherwise the user is presented with a menu having two choices a add a bookmark to the section or 2 select a previously stored bookmark . The first option opens a window which requests the user to type in the name of the bookmark. Once that has been done the user then must press the enter key to save the bookmark. Selecting the second option causes the bookmark to display a list containing the names of all the bookmarks that have been saved . Selection of a desired bookmark will cause associated articles to be displayed.

The Find a Word function enables the user to look up the next occurrence of a word found in the text of an article. The Find a Word function operates as follows the user activates the Find a Word function through an appropriate icon. A window is then opened which instructs the user to click a word in the text. The computer display then jumps to the next page that the user is currently viewing and displays that page . Each time the subject word appears on that page it is highlighted.

For example suppose a user is on page 1 of the ASTRONOMY article and wants to find the next occurrence of the word sky . Clicking Find a Word and then clicking the word sky will take the user to page 3 of the article where he can see the word sky highlighted several times.

The Dictionary function allows the user to look up the meaning of any word he does not know or recognize. In operation when the Dictionary function icon is clicked a window first opens. The window prompts the user to click the word that he wants to look up in the dictionary. After selecting a word a dictionary display is opened up. The display provides the actual dictionary entries for that word as it would appear in a published dictionary. An example of a dictionary that could be used in such a database is the Merriam Webster Intermediate Dictionary. To return to the text without using the dictionary again the Close Tools command is activated.

The Dictionary may be scrolled up or down by clicking a mouse over up arrows on the display not shown . By clicking the up arrow the definition of the word that precedes the one just viewed can be seen while the down arrow takes the user to the next word in the dictionary. If the word definition covers more area than available on the screen clicking the down arrow then displays the rest of the definition.

The Dictionary function is available any time a mouse or cursor is placed on a word that does not activate a separate function. The purpose of the Dictionary function is therefore to remind users that this feature is available.

The Cut and Paste function lets the user copy part of an article that he is viewing and place that information directly into his Notes see . When the Cut and Paste function is activated the computer will ask the user to highlight words to cut and paste . Highlighting the text involves moving a mouse and or cursor to the beginning of the place in the text that the user wishes to underline. He then depresses one of the mouse buttons and holds the button down while dragging the cursor to the end of the text that he wants to cut out. Words will be highlighted as the mouse moves across that area. When the mouse button is released the computer will then ask whether the user wishes to save that text . If the user clicks yes then the computer will transfer information into the Notebook .

If the Notebook is full or if the user tries to cut and paste too much text then a message will appear on the display instructing the user to either erase the Notebook or highlight less information. If the user chooses not to save text then by activating the Close Tool command the user returns to the appropriate screen.

Referring now to the Notes or Notebook function is activated when the user wishes to take notes on information appearing anywhere in the database. When the icon representing the Notebook function is activated a window opens which provides an available space for the user to enter his notes. As the user enters information in this window letters will be added in the box where a flashing line on the cursor appears. Text is inserted by moving the cursor to where the user wants new text to appear. The notes window also includes up and down arrows for scrolling the text up and down one line at a time. The Notebook window is adapted to hold approximately 108 lines of text. If the window becomes full some information will need to be erased before any new text is added. Text is erased by depressing the BACKSPACE key.

The Notebook window is accompanied by a variety of functions and commands. The Close function queries the user whether he wishes to save his changes that were made in the Notebook window . If the user enters yes then the contents of the Notebook along with any changes made in those contents will be saved. The user is then returned to the screen from which he opened the Notebook. Clicking yes also provides a safety function. If the user accidentally clears information in the Notebook then by clicking yes that information will be restored. If the user does not want to save any changes he enters no causing all of the changes made in the Notebook to be erased. As a result the original information that had been in the Notebook before the changes were made will be available .

The Beginning of File function lets the user move up to the first line of the Notebook. The End of File function takes the cursor to the last line of text appearing in the Notebook window.

The Move function moves the Notebook window to the top of the screen. Activating the function a second time puts the Notebook window back at the bottom of the screen. The purpose of the Move function therefore is to place the window in an appropriate area so that the user can still see information on the screen.

The Size function changes the size of the Notebook window display. When activated the size of the Notebook window is doubled. By clicking the size function again the Notebook window is reduced to its original size so that more of the underlying text is visible.

The Clear function removes all text from the Notebook. When the Clear function is clicked on the computer will ask the user at whether he wishes to save his changes. If he answers yes then the contents of the Notebook along with any changes are saved at step . If the user enters no whatever was originally in the Notebook is restored and the changes are deleted at step .

The entry at the top of this list Science Features Articles represents the first entry path while the article Aardvark is the last place the user was before his present location. From this list it also is clear what research has already been done. The two entry paths Science Feature Articles and Title Finder were accessed and the articles on Astronomy and Domesticated Animals were uncovered. The Aardvark and Eclipses subjects within the articles were then specifically accessed.

Should the user desire to return to a previous spot listed on the Research Path display the user employs his mouse to click that item on the list which will then return him to the first page for that item . If however the user does not wish to call any of the items on the Research Path then he may select at step the Tools function the Dictionary function or exit by turning on the close command .

Referring now to a flow chart of the logical operation for the Back function is shown. When the user selects this function the system automatically backs up to the screen where a change in the decision had previously been made at step .

The third node of searching occurs when the user has a subject in mind but is not sure of the exact title or spelling. He can then click a letter tab shown in the display representing the first letter of the subject that he wishes to search . The computer will then move to the page of the alphabetical title list for the identified letter. The user can then click the up down arrows until he finds the article he wants and then retrieves the article at step .

Sub topics exist in two forms. If the sub topics are listed with an initial capital letter then that sub topic covers further sub topics. Those additional sub topics are shown on later screens. However if the sub topic shown on the list is capitalized then it directly corresponds to an article. By clicking that sub topic with a mouse an article is displayed at . Further sub topics are displayed at step and the process loops down to further sub topic levels at steps and until the desired article is uncovered. If the user then decides to go back a level to return to a previous menu screen he may do so by clicking the Back function . Actuating the Main Menu function will in turn return the user to the Main Menu so that he may choose another entry path or exit the multimedia search program altogether.

To use upon entering the Picture Explorer menu the user can select one of several options at step . Those options include the three separate search paths picture tour picture finder and picture search . Additionally a number of functions are available including Tools Notes Research Path Last Screen Tools and Main Menu .

The picture tour search path presents a randomly ordered selection of pictures from the database. To move forward through the pictures the user moves the up down arrows . If the picture appears to be of interest then the user can retrieve an article at steps and display a caption for each picture at steps and or simply move down to the next picture at step . Additionally the caption can be moved at steps or the user can return to the picture to an article or to the Main Menu of the Picture Explorer entry path at steps and .

The picture finder entry path lets the user read through a list of picture captions which are grouped alphabetically. The organization of the caption list and the method for searching that list is similar to the Title Finder entry path algorithm . In operation upon entering the Picture Finder a number of functions become available for user selection including Tools Notes Research Path Last Screen Main Menu or Back . As in title search the picture finder provides three ways of searching for picture captions. The first method involves typing in the picture name whereupon picture titles closest to that typed in are then displayed . If the user then wishes to learn more about a picture he can activate the caption . The second method involves scrolling up or down through the picture list at step to review the desired picture . The third method involves clicking a mouse on a letter tab which will then move to the page in which the picture titles starting with the tab letter appear. The user may then move up and down that page until he finds the desired picture caption . Step loops back to the first decision point for the picture finder search path .

Picture search operates in a manner similar to that previously described with regard to the idea search See . Generally the picture search program operates when a search term describing the picture caption is entered in the picture search window. For example should the user want to know how automobile engines work he types in the picture search window how do automobile engines work The user then activates the Go On command to tell the computer to begin the search. When the computer completes its search search words are redisplayed as highlighted terms. A list of pictures with captions also is presented and the user can see the picture described by a caption in the list by clicking the mouse on that caption. The user then calls the associated article by activating the Go To Article function.

The user also can scroll through the list to see adjacent captions. Captions preceded by at least one asterisk most likely contain information directly relevant to the search request. The New List or New Search functions are also available in this program. These functions operate in the same manner described previously for Idea Search.

The timeline display consists of a year bar marked in 5 year intervals. Each interval is expanded into a separate display. Each display includes a plurality of major event boxes event boxes and a president bar. An era banner is also provided in the display which groups dates and historical events into major periods. The president bar operates to open a window that gives the full name and dates the president was in office and a list of the major legislation or other significant events of that president s administration. Information is ordered by the years in which those events occurred. By clicking the Go To Article function the user can then view a particular article relating to that event.

When the History Timeline is entered through display . That display will introduce the entry path and also display the beginning period for the timeline. The user may then either click the 5 year segment of the year bar or click the mouse on an arrow to move the timeline display ahead 12 years . Once the user has reached the desired timeline segment he may then choose among several ways to retrieve information. A number of functions including Notes Research Path Last Screen and Main Menu are available on all timebar screens

The first way to retrieve information is by activating a major event box . Major Events represent historical occurrences consisting of at least two events. For example if the user chooses the Discovery and Exploration major event box then a window will open listing several events that took place during the time period covered by the major event between the years 1490 1625 . If the user then selects an event appearing on the list at step i.e. 1492 Christopher Columbus discovers the New World another window opens containing a description of that event at step . The user may click the mouse on the up down arrows to read more about the event.

If the user then wishes to see articles relating to that event he then activates the Go On command . A window with a list of article titles is then set forth. The user can then call a related article e.g. Columbus by clicking the mouse over the listed title as previously described. When in reviewing the article the user is ready to return to the History Timeline he activates an icon representing the timeline.

A second search option in History Timeline is the event box . The event box operates in a similar manner to the major event box except that it only represents one event. Accordingly when clicking a mouse on the event box a window opens displaying information about the event. Often included in the event window is an audio feature which is played by clicking an audio icon . Articles can then be selected in steps in the same manner as for major events. The option for moving the next display screen by the arrow icons is shown in steps .

Turning now to the third method of searching the History Timeline is shown. This third method involves activating the president s bar . To use a user clicks on a display box containing a president s name. A display listing significant events during that president s administration is then shown. If the user wishes to see a related article he clicks the Go To Article command which causes a display of the article at step . To exit from the article and return to the History Timeline icon the user must then activate an appropriate icon appearing in the prompt line.

The World Atlas program is entered by clicking the World Atlas icon in the Main Menu . Immediately upon entering World Atlas an atlas is displayed at step . There are seven levels from which the user can display a map from the atlas. Each level corresponds to the scale of the atlas. When the user first enters World Atlas he will see a map of the Western Hemisphere drawn at level . The user may then choose to rotate zoom in or zoom out of each level. By moving a cursor on the Atlas the center of the Atlas may be moved to correspond to the cursor s position. The user also rotates the globe by clicking the mouse on a compass direction icon at step which will cause the atlas to pan in the direction of the compass .

A further feature of the World Atlas entry path is the labels function . Labels operates as follows when the user turns Labels on place name labels are written onto the atlas. If the user is interested in seeing an article that is related to a place name label he can click the cursor over the label which will then display a list of articles related to the place name . If an article of interest appears in the list the user can then select that article . The user returns from the article to the timeline by pressing a timeline icon as previously described.

Another viewing function for the World Atlas entry path is the zoom in and zoom out feature. As previously mentioned there are seven levels from which the earth can be viewed. If the zoom in is initiated the user can focus on one or more levels to see a closer view of that area of the map . The map can be zoomed in all the way at steps and to level . When the lowest level is reached the zoom in clickspot disappears and the user can only zoom out.

When the maps are displayed at levels and a mileage scale appears on the lower right corner of the screen. Mileage scales are not given for levels and because these levels give two global views of the earth. In other words measuring distances between two points on the globe must take into account the curvature of the earth. Mileage scales are most useful when distances can thus be represented as straight lines. At levels through therefore distances between two points can be measured by a straight line. A further viewing function for the Atlas is the latitude longitude option . By clicking on the latitude longitude function the computer adds lines to the Atlas indicating latitude and longitude markings. This will thus give the user a better idea of the location of various places on the map.

Step relates to the Place Finder search path. This feature enables a user to search the globe in three ways 1 by clicking a mouse on the up down arrow and moving through an alphabetical list of places 2 by clicking a letter tab that appears along the side of the list of places or 3 by typing in the first few letters of a place that the user wants to see. Once the place is found on the list by any of the above methods the user then clicks the mouse on that place entry and that entry will be immediately displayed on the globe. Operations of the place finder program are shown in more detail in . Specifically the place name list is first displayed upon activating the place finder icon . The user is then provided with a selection of functions including Tools Notes Research Path Last Screen and Main Menu . In addition to these functions the user may search the place name list at step .

If the user decides to search the place name list by name he must first type in the name in the place box . A search by the computer of the list of names then occurs. If the user then clicks the mouse on the place name on the list a map having the place identified at its center is shown . Activating the up down icons or selecting a letter tab corresponding to the first letter of the place name list and also will turn up place names for the list.

Returning to the Atlas also may be rotated by moving the mouse to a new place on the Atlas and then clicking on the mouse . As a result the Atlas will be redisplayed with the cursor positioned as it s center.

The World Atlas entry path can be used to approximate the latitude and longitude of many places. For example whenever a map is on the screen the coordinates of the latitude and longitude of that point in the center of the screen appear across the top of the screen. Reference coordinates are available whether or not the latitude and longitude lines appear on the map. Moreover when the place name search path is used in conjunction with the latitude and longitude functions the exact coordinates of that place are thereby made available. However if a place that does not have a discrete location is searched e.g. river region then the computer draws a map around the center point of the screen region or area displayed.

For example suppose the user accesses the place name search path to draw a map of Shanghai China. A circle representing the geographic location of Shanghai then appears at the center of the screen and the highlighted word Shanghai is displayed next to it. The latitude and longitude of the city 31N 121E also appear on the display. If the user then clicks the mouse on the Lat Long On icon at step the computer will add lines for the latitude and longitude. This will then give the user a better idea of the location of various places on the map.

Alternatively if the user decides to see a rap of Korea the computer will then re draw the map so that Korea is at the center of the screen. The latitude and longitude reading in the title line 36N 127E thereby represents the coordinates of the approximate center of the country of Korea.

Another feature of the World Atlas entry path is that when a map is drawn the arrow cursor remains in the prompt line and cannot be moved up into the map area. Only after a map has been completely drawn shaded and labelled if labels are turned on can the cursor be moved onto the map.

All cities that appear on the map have a circle next to their labels. A circle indicates the geographic location of the city. Cities that are capitals of countries are marked with a star surrounded by a circle. Cities that are capitals of states have a star located next to their labels. When the place finder is used the place label will be highlighted on the map that is drawn and a symbol will be located at the center of the screen.

If a research category is selected from display then a list of research topics appears . The user may then select the research assignment after reviewing the displayed description of the topic . The selection step involves three levels of difficulty and . An assignment is selected by clicking a mouse on the chosen assignment. The user may then review information about the topic and about the assignment. Once the user makes a decision about which assignment to work on he can then cut and paste that assignment into his Notes and then return to the Main Menu through function . In the Main Menu the user can then choose an appropriate entry path for that assignment. The other options include the ability to go back and view the last screen to go to another program from the Research Path list to go back to the last decision step through the Back function or to employ Tools .

For example if the user is interested in doing research on spiders he then selects Living Things from the research categories at step . The term spider would then be selected from the topic list at step . The user would then read the screens of introductory text for that topic and move through those screens using the down arrow at step . At the end of the topic three assignments would be available 

To make a selection the user clicks the name of the assignment and so that the information on the assignment will then be displayed. That information includes the name of articles where the user will find the information for that assignment.

Should a different assignment on the same topic be desired the Back function returns the user to the screen where the three assignments and are listed. Should the user want to then select a different topic from the same category the Back function is activated again returning to the topic menu . Clicking Back once more returns to the menu of research categories where the user can select a new category of topics.

Any time the user is looking at the introductory text for a topic the user can click the next topic function which will move them ahead to the next topic in the same category without having to return to the topic menu . To change a research category however the Back function must be employed as described above.

Once the user has determined which assignment he wants to search by clicking the Main Menu the user is then prompted by the display about whether or not he wishes to save that assignment stored in his notes . If the answer is no the user will return to the Main Menu at step .

As an alternative the Researcher s Assistant path can be designed to be played as a game. The goal of the game is to encourage users to compete in obtaining information from the database. The game is arranged as a competitive scavenger hunt. Each user is asked to collect information about a question and is encouraged to collect facts and store the collected facts in a single storage area. The user then is scored on the time it takes him to retrieve facts and the number of correct facts he collected. The game is played at different levels of difficulty.

While a particular embodiment of the present invention has been disclosed it is to be understood that various different modifications are possible and are contemplated as being within the true spirit and scope of the claims. There is no intention therefore of limiting this invention to the exact abstract or disclosure presented herein. More particularly it is contemplated that this invention can be used with any information that can be stored in a database. While the present invention has largely been described with reference to an encyclopaedia other databases of published graphical or textual information could be included.

