---

title: Methods of cleansing skin and rinse-off or wipe-off compositions therefor
abstract: Methods of cleansing skin comprise the steps of contacting the skin with a cleansing compositions comprising a fatty ester in combination with a lipid, and either rinsing the composition from the skin with water or wiping the composition from the skin with a dry or damp substrate. The cleansing compositions can comprise at least 8%, by weight of the composition, of fatty ester and/or further comprise a nonionic surfactant and less than about 50%, by weight of the composition, of an alcohol solvent such as ethanol, isopropanol, or mixtures thereof. The methods and compositions provide skin cleansing and hydration benefits.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08563491&OS=08563491&RS=08563491
owner: The Procter & Gamble Company
number: 08563491
owner_city: Cincinnati
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060303
---
This application claims the benefit of Provisional Application Ser. Nos. 60 658 687 filed Mar. 4 2005 and 60 700 960 filed Jul. 20 2005.

The present invention relates to methods of cleansing skin and cleansing compositions comprising a fatty ester in combination with a lipid. The compositions and methods provide skin cleansing and hydration benefits.

Personal cleansing products especially products for cleansing facial skin are very popular consumer products in today s market. There are several cleansing benefits that such facial cleansing products attempt to achieve such as removing makeup removing dead skin unclogging pores sebum removal and the like. While many facial cleansing products are effective in providing these cleansing benefits many products can irritate the skin or cause the skin to lose moisture and become dried out. Even water alone when used to cleanse skin can cause the skin to lose moisture.

As a result many consumers resort to using both a facial cleansing product for achieving cleansing benefits followed by a skin lotion product to provide hydration benefits to the skin and prevent the skin from drying out.

There thus remains a desire to develop skin cleansing compositions especially for facial cleansing that provide effective skin cleansing while improving skin hydration provide a rich creamy lather and are easily rinsed from the skin with water or wiped from the skin with a dry or damp substrate.

The present invention relates to compositions and methods for cleansing skin which also provide skin hydration benefits. The compositions generally comprise a fatty ester in combination with a lipid to provide both cleansing and hydration benefits in a rinse off or wipe off cleansing composition. The methods of the present invention generally encompass contacting the skin with a composition of the present invention and either rinsing the composition from the skin with water or wiping the composition from the skin with a dry or damp substrate.

In one embodiment the present compositions comprise at least 8 by weight of the composition of fatty ester to provide skin cleansing and hydration benefits especially for removing greasy soils from skin e.g. makeup in the context of a rinse off or wipe off composition.

In one embodiment the present compositions comprise a nonionic surfactant to allow the compositions to be easily rinsed or otherwise removed from the skin. The nonionic surfactant will preferably have an average HLB of from about 8 to about 20. These compositions tend to be highly aqueous and will comprise a level of alcohol solvent such as ethanol isopropanol or mixtures thereof of less than about 50 by weight of the composition.

In one embodiment the present compositions further comprise a hydrophobic structuring agent. The hydrophobic structuring agent can facilitate the formation of a gel network in the present compositions which tends to provide a rich creamy feel on the skin and allows for good application of the product without causing damage to the skin.

The present invention relates to methods of cleansing skin and cleansing compositions comprising a fatty ester in combination with a lipid preferably a high modulus lipid. The compositions can further comprise a number of optional ingredients such as hydrophobic structuring agents cationic surfactants nonionic surfactants amphoteric surfactants anionic surfactants humectants exfoliating agents polymeric thickeners silicones silicone elastomers aqueous carrier and other optional ingredients and mixtures thereof.

Fatty esters are incorporated in the present compositions to provide skin cleansing and skin hydration benefits. Fatty esters can also serve to enhance the spreadability of the lipid and to reduce the tack typically associated with lipids. The fatty esters can be premixed with the lipids or they can be added separately while the product is warm or when the product is cooling.

The present compositions will typically comprise fatty esters at a level of at least about 1 preferably at least about 5 and more preferably at least about 8 by weight of the composition. The level of fatty ester in the present composition is preferably no greater than about 40 preferably no greater than about 30 and more preferably no greater than about 20 by weight of the composition. In one embodiment the present compositions comprise greater than 8 and preferably greater than about 10 by weight of the composition of fatty ester.

The fatty esters of the present invention can include linear and branched fatty ester oils that comprise one or two ester group in the molecule. One type of common fatty ester oil useful in the present invention are the fatty acid mono and polyesters such as cetyl octanoate octyl isonanoanate myristyl lactate cetyl lactate isopropyl myristate myristyl myristate diisopropyl sebacate isopropyl isostearate isostearyl isostearate propylene glycol dipelargonate 2 ethylhexyl isononoate 2 ethylhexyl stearate isopropyl lanolate 2 ethylhexyl salicylate diisotearyl malate isostearyl neopentanoate isopropyl palmitate isopropyl adipate butyl stearate ethylhexyl isononanoate decyl oleate cholesterol isostearate glycerol monostearate glycerol distearate glycerol tristearate alkyl lactate alkyl citrate and alkyl tartrate sorbitol ester and the like. Preferred fatty esters are isopropyl palmitate and or isopropyl isostearate.

The esters will preferably have a viscosity below about 100 milliPascals mPas even more preferably below about 75 mPas even more preferably below about 50 mPas and most preferably below about 40 mPas.

The individual fatty groups of the esters will preferably comprise no more than about 22 carbon atoms more preferably no more than about 18 carbon atoms and more preferably no more than about 16 carbon atoms. For a single alkyl group having greater than 17 carbon atoms branched or unsaturated alkyl chains are preferred. Preferably the total number of carbon atoms in the fatty ester will be less than about 30 even more preferably less than about 25 even more preferably less than about 23.

The present compositions will further comprise a lipid to provide skin hydration benefits. Suitable lipids include oils and high modulus lipids. The high modulus lipids of the present invention typically comprise an oil and an oil structurant. Compositions having enhanced skin cleansing and skin hydration benefits can be achieved by combining the lipid with the fatty ester of the present invention. As noted previously the lipids can be premixed with the fatty esters during the process of making the present compositions.

Lipids are typically incorporated in the present compositions at levels of from about 0.1 to about 20 preferably from about 0.5 to about 15 and more preferably from about 1 to about 10 by weight of the composition. Preferably the ratio of lipid to fatty ester will typically be no more than about 20 1 more preferably no more than about 10 1 more preferably no more than about 5 1 and more preferably no more than about 2 1. Preferably the ratio of lipid to fatty ester will typically be at least about 1 15 even more preferably at least about 1 10 even more preferably at least about 1 8 even more preferably at least about 1 4.

A variety of oils are suitable for incorporation as a lipid in the compositions herein. One class of oils useful herein are triglycerides and modified triglycerides. These include vegetable oils such as jojoba soybean canola sunflower safflower rice bran avocado almond olive sesame persic castor coconut and mink oils. Synthetic triglycerides can also be employed. Modified triglycerides include materials such as ethoxylated and maleated triglyceride derivatives provided they are liquids. Proprietary ester blends such as those sold by Finetex as FINSOLV are also suitable as is ethylhexanoic acid glyceride.

Another type of oil is liquid polyester formed from the reaction of a dicarboxylic acid and a diol. Examples of polyesters suitable for the present invention are the polyesters marketed by ExxonMobil under the trade name PURESYN ESTER.

A second class of oils suitable for the present invention is liquid and semi solid hydrocarbons. These include linear and branched oils such as liquid paraffin squalene squalane mineral oil low viscosity synthetic hydrocarbons such as polyalphaolefin sold by ExxonMobil under the trade name of PURESYN PAO and polybutene under the trade name PANALANE or INDOPOL . Light low viscosity highly branched hydrocarbon oils are also suitable.

The lipid of the present invention can be a high modulus lipid that comprises an oil such as those described previously and an oil structurant. A variety of oil structurants are suitable for incorporation in the high modulus lipid of the present invention. The oil structurant can be either an organic or inorganic structurant. Examples of organic oil structurants suitable for the invention can be selected from the group consisting of natural or modified fats fatty acid fatty amine natural and synthetic waxes block copolymers and mixtures thereof. Suitable block polymers for this application can be those sold under the name KRATON by Shell. Inorganic structuring agents can be selected from the group consisting of hydrophobically modified silica hydrophobically modified clay and mixtures thereof. Non limiting examples of inorganic structurants are BENTONE 27V BENTONE 38V or BENTONE GEL MIO V from Rheox and CAB O SIL TS720 or CAB O SIL M5 from Cabot Corporation.

The structurant may be a natural or synthetic crystalline wax. Mineral animal or plant vegetable waxes are all described as natural waxes. Synthetic waxes are described as those waxes that have been synthetically polymerized from raw materials or chemically modified natural waxes.

Among the natural crystalline waxes which may be used are petroleum based waxes such as paraffin wax and microcrystalline wax. Molecular weights of paraffin waxes generally range from about 360 to about 420 about 26 to about 30 carbon atoms although versions with longer chains molecular weights up to about 600 are available. Typical melting points are from about 126 F. to about 134 F. from about 52 C. to about 57 C. with the high molecular weight versions having melting points near about 170 F. about 77 C. . Paraffin waxes are brittle and the addition of oil tends to weaken the structure lowers the tensile strength . Microcrystalline wax melting points are from about 145 F. to about 195 F. from about 63 C. to about 91 C. . The crystals of microcrystalline wax tend to be small and irregular and consist of several types plates malcrystalline and needle.

Other suitable oil structurants include animal derived or plant derived waxes. Animal waxes can be obtained from such things as bees insects or whales. These waxes include but are not limited to beeswax Chinese wax shellac wax spermaceti and wool wax. Plant waxes can be derived from beans leaves and berries. Plant or vegetable waxes can include bayberry candelilla carnauba cotton esparto fir Japan ouricury palm rice oil sugar cane ucuhuba and cocoa butter.

Among synthetic crystalline waxes which may be used are crystalline polymers such as polyethylene Fischer Tropsch waxes such as polymethylene chemically modified waxes polymerized alpha olefins and synthetic animal waxes. For example siliconyl beeswax may be used which is beeswax that has been chemically modified.

In addition the oil structurant may be a natural or synthetic hydrogenated oil. Hydrogenated oils can be hydrogenated vegetable oils hydrogenated coconut oil hydrogenated palm kernel oil hydrogenated rapeseed oil castorwax and many others.

Petrolatum is a unique hydrocarbon material as it typically comprises both an oil e.g. mineral oil and an oil structurant e.g. paraffin wax and or microcrystalline wax . Therefore petrolatum itself constitutes a high modulus lipid according to the present invention and is a preferred high modulus lipid of the present invention. Petrolatum can also be blended with other lipids of the present invention. Its semi solid nature can be controlled both in production and by the formulator through blending with other lipids.

The high modulus lipids of the present invention will typically have a Lipid Modulus Value of at least about 50 preferably at least about 100 more preferably at least about 125 and more preferably at least about 150. The Lipid Modulus Value of a lipid material is measured according to the Lipid Modulus Test Method described herein.

The present invention optionally comprises no more than about 20 preferably no more than about 10 and more preferably no more than about 7.5 by weight of the composition of an aqueous phase hydrophobic structuring agent preferably selected from the group consisting of saturated Cto Cfatty alcohols saturated Cto Cfatty alcohols containing from about 1 to about 5 moles of ethylene oxide saturated Cto Cdiols saturated Cto Cmonoglycerol ethers saturated Cto Chydroxy fatty acids and mixtures thereof having a melting point of at least about 40 C. The present invention optionally but preferably comprises at least 0.5 more preferably at least 1 and even more preferably at least 2 by weight of the composition of an aqueous phase hydrophobic structuring agent preferably selected from the group consisting of saturated Cto Cfatty alcohols saturated Cto Cfatty alcohols containing from about 1 to about 5 moles of ethylene oxide saturated Cto Cdiols saturated Cto Cmonoglycerol ethers saturated Cto Chydroxy fatty acids and mixtures thereof having a melting point of at least about 40 C. These structuring agents can be useful to assist in the formation of the rheological characteristic of the composition which can contribute to the stability of the composition of the present invention. In particular the aqueous phase hydrophobic structuring agents tend to assist in the formation of the liquid crystalline gel network structures in the present compositions. Indeed the present compositions preferably comprise a gel network. The gel network of the present invention typically comprises an aqueous phase hydrophobic structuring agent and a surfactant. A gel network in the present compositions tends to provide a rich creamy feel and to allow good application of the product without causing damage to the skin.

Suitable hydrophobic structuring agents of the present invention are selected from the group consisting of stearyl alcohol cetyl alcohol cetearyl alcohol myristyl alcohol arachidic alcohol behenyl alcohol stearic acid palmitic acid the polyethylene glycol ether of stearyl alcohol having an average of about 1 to about 5 ethylene oxide units the polyethylene glycol ether of cetyl alcohol having an average of about 1 to about 5 ethylene oxide units emulsifying waxes e.g. POLAWAX NF available from Croda and mixtures thereof. Preferred structuring agents are selected from the group consisting of stearyl alcohol cetyl alcohol behenyl alcohol steareth 2 and mixtures thereof. Such hydrophobic structuring agents can be provided as mixtures with other hydrophobic structuring agents and or surfactants.

The compositions of the present invention can optionally comprise from about 0.1 to about 15 more preferably from about 0.2 to about 10 and most preferably from about 0.5 to about 5 by weight of the composition of cationic surfactant. Cationic surfactants can be useful in the present compositions to help form a gel network in the present compositions although formation of a gel network does not require a cationic surfactant.

Non limiting examples of cationic surfactants useful herein include cationic ammonium salts such as those having the formula 

Other suitable cationic surfactants include protonated amines. The cationic protonated amines can be primary secondary or tertiary amines preferably secondary or tertiary depending upon the particular species and the selected pH of the present composition. Non limiting examples of cationic protonated amines include stearamidopropyl dimethylamine cocamidopropyl dimethylamine lauramidopropyl dimethylamine oleamidopropyl dimethylamine palmitamidopropyl dimethylamine and mixtures thereof.

Nonionic surfactants can be optionally and preferably incorporated in the present compositions to enhance the rinseability of the present compositions from the skin. Nonionic surfactants when present are typically incorporated in the present compositions at a level of from about 0.01 to about 4 preferably from about 0.1 to about 3 and more preferably from about 0.2 to about 2 by weight of the composition.

Among the nonionic surfactants that are useful herein are those that can be broadly defined as condensation products of long chain alcohols e.g. Calcohols with sugar or starch polymers i.e. glycosides. These compounds can be represented by the formula S O R wherein S is a sugar moiety such as glucose sucrose fructose mannose or galactose n is an integer of from about 1 to about 1000 and R is a Calkyl group. Examples of long chain alcohols from which the alkyl group can be derived include decyl alcohol cetyl alcohol stearyl alcohol lauryl alcohol myristyl alcohol oleyl alcohol and the like. Preferred examples of these surfactants include those wherein S is a glucose moiety R is a Calkyl group and n is an integer of from about 1 to about 9. Commercially available examples of these surfactants include decyl polyglucoside and lauryl polyglucoside commercially available from Cognis.

Other useful nonionic surfactants included the condensation products of sorbitol with a fatty acid. Non limiting examples include the Tweens Spans and the Polysorbates.

Other useful nonionic surfactants include the condensation products of alkylene oxides with fatty acids i.e. alkylene oxide esters of fatty acids . These materials have the general formula RCO X OH wherein R is a C10 30 alkyl group X is OCHCH i.e. derived from ethylene glycol or oxide or OCHCHCH i.e. derived from propylene glycol or oxide and n is an integer from about 6 to about 100. Non limiting examples of these alkylene oxide derived nonionic surfactants include ceteth 6 ceteth 10 ceteth 12 ceteareth 6 ceteareth 10 ceteareth 12 steareth 6 steareth 10 steareth 12 PEG 6 stearate PEG 10 stearate PEG 12 stearate PEG 20 glyceryl stearate PEG 80 glyceryl tallowate PPG 10 glyceryl stearate PEG 30 glyceryl cocoate PEG 80 glyceryl cocoate PEG 200 glyceryl tallowate PEG 8 dilaurate PEG 10 distearate and mixtures thereof.

Still other useful nonionic surfactants include polyhydroxy fatty acid amide surfactants. A preferred polyhydroxy fatty acid amide surfactant is coconut alkyl N methyl glucoside amide. Processes for making compositions containing polyhydroxy fatty acid amides are disclosed for example in G. B. Patent Specification 809 060 published Feb. 18 1959 by Thomas Hedley Co. Ltd. U.S. Pat. No. 2 965 576 to E. R. Wilson issued Dec. 20 1960 U.S. Pat. No. 2 703 798 to A. M. Schwartz issued Mar. 8 1955 and U.S. Pat. No. 1 985 424 to Piggott issued Dec. 25 1934.

Non limiting examples of suitable nonionic surfactants include polyethylene glycol 20 sorbitan monolaurate Polysorbate 20 polyethylene glycol 5 soya sterol steareth 20 steareth 21 ceteareth 20 ceteareth 12 PPG 2 methyl glucose ether distearate ceteth 10 Polysorbate 80 cetyl phosphate potassium cetyl phosphate diethanolamine cetyl phosphate Polysorbate 60 glyceryl stearate PEG 100 stearate polyoxyethylene 20 sorbitan trioleate Polysorbate 85 sorbitan monolaurate polyoxyethylene 4 lauryl ether sodium stearate polyglyceryl 4 isostearate hexyl laurate diethanolamine cetyl phosphate glyceryl stearate PEG 100 stearate and mixtures thereof. Preferred nonionic surfactants are those selected from the group consisting of steareth 21 ceteareth 20 ceteareth 12 Tween 60 Tween 80 sucrose cocoate steareth 100 PEG 100 stearate PEG 1000 stearate and mixtures thereof.

Nonionic surfactants can be useful in facilitating the rinse properties of a composition comprising a gel network. Preferred nonionic surfactants will typically have an average HLB value of at least about 8 preferably at least about 9 more preferably at least about 10 more preferably at least about 11 and more preferably at least about 12. Additionally preferred nonionic surfactants will have an average HLB value of no greater than about 20 preferably no greater than about 18 more preferably no greater than about 16 and more preferably no greater than about 14.

Additionally preferred nonionic surfactants for facilitating rinse properties of the present compositions especially those comprising a gel network have alkyl chain lengths of from Cto C preferably from Cto C and more preferably from Cto C. Non limiting examples of such nonionic surfactants include C Cglucose amides C Calkyl polyglucosides C Calkyl glucosides and C Calkyl ethoxylates.

The compositions of the present invention can optionally comprise from about 0.1 to about 20 more preferably from about 0.2 to about 10 and most preferably from about 0.5 to about 5 by weight of the composition of an amphoteric surfactant.

The term amphoteric surfactant as used herein is also intended to encompass zwitterionic surfactants which are a subset of amphoteric surfactants.

A wide variety of amphoteric surfactants can be used in the compositions of the present invention. Particularly useful are those which are broadly described as derivatives of aliphatic secondary and tertiary amines preferably wherein the nitrogen is in a cationic state in which the aliphatic radicals can be straight or branched chain and wherein one of the radicals contains an ionizable water solubilizing group e.g. carboxy sulfonate sulfate phosphate or phosphonate.

Nonlimiting examples of amphoteric surfactants useful in the compositions of the present invention are disclosed in McCutcheon s Detergents and Emulsifiers North American edition 1986 published by allured Publishing Corporation and McCutcheon s Functional Materials North American Edition 1992 .

Nonlimiting examples zwitterionic surfactants are those selected from the group consisting of betaines sultaines hydroxysultaines alkyliminoacetates imninodialkanoates aminoalkanoates and mixtures thereof.

Preferred amphoteric surfactants include disodium lauroamphodiacetate sodium lauroamphoacetate cetyl dimethyl betaine i.e. cetyl betaine cocoamidopropyl betaine cocoamidopropyl hydroxy sultaine or mixtures thereof. Of these cetyl dimethyl betaine i.e. cetyl betaine is especially preferred.

The compositions of the present invention can optionally comprise from about 0.1 to about 20 more preferably from about 0.2 to about 10 and most preferably from about 0.5 to about 5 by weight of the composition of an anionic surfactant.

Nonlimiting examples of anionic surfactants useful in the compositions of the present invention are disclosed in McCutcheon s North American edition 1986 published by allured Publishing Corporation McCutcheon s North American Edition 1992 and U.S. Pat. No. 3 929 678 to Laughlin et al. issued Dec. 30 1975 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

A wide variety of anionic surfactants are useful herein. Nonlimiting examples of anionic surfactants include the alkoyl isethionates and the alkyl and alkyl ether sulfates. The alkoyl isethionates typically have the formula RCO OCHCHSOM wherein R is alkyl or alkenyl of from about 10 to about 30 carbon atoms and M is a water soluble cation such as ammonium sodium potassium and triethanolamine. Nonlimiting examples of these isethionates include those alkoyl isethionates selected from the group consisting of ammonium cocoyl isethionate sodium cocoyl isethionate sodium lauroyl isethionate sodium stearoyl isethionate and mixtures thereof.

The alkyl and alkyl ether sulfates typically have the respective formulae ROSOM and RO CHO SOM wherein R is alkyl or alkenyl of from about 10 to about 30 carbon atoms x is from about 1 to about 10 and M is a water soluble cation such as ammonium sodium potassium and triethanolamine. Another suitable class of anionic surfactants are the water soluble salts of the organic sulfuric acid reaction products of the general formula R SO M wherein Ris chosen from the group consisting of a straight or branched chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon radical having from about 8 to about 24 preferably about 10 to about 16 carbon atoms and M is a cation. Still other anionic synthetic surfactants include the class designated as succinamates olefin sulfonates having about 12 to about 24 carbon atoms and b alkyloxy alkane sulfonates. Examples of these materials are sodium lauryl sulfate and ammonium lauryl sulfate.

Other anionic materials include the sarcosinates nonlimiting examples of which include sodium lauroyl sarcosinate sodium cocoyl sarcosinate and ammonium lauroyl sarcosinate.

Other anionic materials useful herein are soaps i.e. alkali metal salts e.g. sodium or potassium salts of fatty acids typically having from about 8 to about 24 carbon atoms preferably from about 10 to about 20 carbon atoms. The fatty acids used in making the soaps can be obtained from natural sources such as for instance plant or animal derived glycerides e.g. palm oil coconut oil soybean oil castor oil tallow lard etc. . The fatty acids can also be synthetically prepared. Soaps are described in more detail in U.S. Pat. No. 4 557 853 cited above.

Other anionic materials include alkanoyl sarcosinates corresponding to the formula RCON CH CHCHCOM wherein R is alkyl or alkenyl of about 10 to about 20 carbon atoms and M is a water soluble cation such as ammonium sodium potassium and trialkanolamine e.g. triethanolamine a preferred example of which is sodium lauroyl sarcosinate.

Nonlimiting examples of preferred anionic surfactants useful herein include those selected from the group consisting of sodium lauryl sulfate ammonium lauryl sulfate ammonium cetyl sulfate sodium cetyl sulfate sodium stearyl sulfate ammonium cocoyl isethionate sodium lauroyl isethionate sodium lauroyl sarcosinate and mixtures thereof.

A variety of humectants can be optionally employed in the present compositions at a level of from about 0.1 to about 20 more preferably from about 0.5 to about 10 and most preferably from about 1 to about 5 by weight of the composition.

Nonlimiting examples of humectants include materials selected from the group consisting of guanidine glycolic acid and glycolate salts e.g. ammonium and quaternary alkyl ammonium lactic acid and lactate salts e.g. ammonium and quaternary alkyl ammonium aloe vera in any of its variety of forms e.g. aloe vera gel polyhydroxy alcohols such as sorbitol glycerol i.e. glycerin hexanetriol propylene glycol butylene glycol hexylene glycol and the like polyethylene glycols sugars and starches sugar and starch derivatives e.g. alkoxylated glucose hyaluronic acid lactamide monoethanolamine acetamide monoethanolamine and mixtures thereof. Also useful are propoxylated glycerols as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 976 953 to Orr et al. issued Dec. 11 1990 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present compositions can optionally further comprise exfoliating agents derived from a wide variety of particulate materials including those derived from inorganic organic natural and synthetic sources.

The particulate exfoliating agents of the present invention when present are typically utilized at a level of from about 0.1 to about 20 preferably from about 0.25 to about 10 and more preferably from about 0.5 to about 5 by weight of the composition. Non limiting examples of these materials include those selected from the group consisting of almond meal alumina aluminum oxide aluminum silicate apricot seed powder attapulgite barley flour bismuth oxychloride boron nitride calcium carbonate calcium phosphate calcium pyrophosphate calcium sulfate cellulose chalk chitin clay corn cob meal corn cob powder corn flour corn meal corn starch diatomaceous earth dicalcium phosphate dicalcium phosphate dihydrate fullers earth hydrated silica hydroxyapatite iron oxide jojoba seed powder kaolin loofah magnesium trisilicate mica microcrystalline cellulose montmorillonite oat bran oat flour oatmeal peach pit powder pecan shell powder polybutylene polyethylene polyisobutylene polymethylstyrene polypropylene polystyrene polyurethane nylon teflon i.e. polytetrafluoroethylene polyhalogenated olefins pumice rice bran rye flour sericite silica silk sodium bicarbonate sodium silicoaluminate soy flour synthetic hectorite talc tin oxide titanium dioxide tricalcium phosphate walnut shell powder wheat bran wheat flour wheat starch zirconium silicate and mixtures thereof. Also useful are particles made from mixed polymers e.g. copolymers terpolymers etc. among such are polyethylene polypropylene copolymer polyethylene propylene isobutylene copolymer polyethylene styrene copolymer and mixtures thereof. Typically the polymeric and mixed polymeric particles are treated via an oxidation process to destroy impurities and the like. The polymeric and mixed polymeric particles can also optionally be cross linked with a variety of common crosslinking agents non limiting examples including butadiene divinyl benzene methylenebisacrylamide allyl ethers of sucrose allyl ethers of pentaerythritol and mixtures thereof. Other examples of useful particles include waxes and resins such as paraffins carnuba wax ozekerite wax candellila wax urea formaldehyde resins and the like. When such waxes and resins are used herein it is important that these materials are solids at ambient and skin temperatures.

Among the preferred water insoluble particulate materials useful as exfoliating agents herein are the synthetic polymeric particles. Synthetic polymeric particles useful in the present invention are selected from the group consisting of polybutylene polyethylene polyisobutylene polymethylstyrene polypropylene polystyrene polyurethane oxidized derivatives thereof nylon teflon and mixtures thereof. Non limiting examples of suitable exfoliating agents include oxidized polyethylene beads commercially available as A C Oxidized Polyethylene beads from Honeywell and ACCUSCRUB beads from Accutech LLC.

The present compositions can optionally further comprise interference pigments. An interference pigment is a pigment with pearl gloss prepared by coating the surface of a particle substrate material with a thin film. The particle substrate material is generally platelet in shape. The thin film is a transparent or semitransparent material having a high refractive index. The high refractive index material shows a pearl gloss resulting from mutual interfering action between reflection and incident light from the platelet substrate coating layer interface and reflection of incident light from the surface of the coating layer. The present compositions preferably comprise no more than about 20 more preferably no more than about 10 even more preferably no more than about 7 and still more preferably no more than about 5 by weight of the composition of interference pigment when present. The present compositions preferably comprise at least about 0.01 more preferably at least about 0.05 even more preferably at least about 0.1 and still more preferably at least about 0.2 by weight of the composition of interference pigment when present.

In one embodiment the interference pigment surface is either hydrophobic or has been hydrophobically modified. The greater the contact angle the greater the hydrophobicity of the interference pigment. The interference pigments preferably possess a contact angle of at least about 60 degrees more at least about 80 degrees even more preferably at least about 100 degrees and still more preferably at least about 110 degrees. The contact angle of the interference pigment can be determined according to the Particle Contact Angle Test described in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 658 687 filed Mar. 4 2005. The hydrophobically modified interference pigment HMIP allows for the entrapment of the HMIP within the dispersed oil phase and greater deposition of the HMIP. In a preferred embodiment the compositions contain both HMIPs and a dispersed oil phase. Preferably the weight ratio of HMIP to dispersed oil phase is from about 1 1 to about 1 70 more preferably from about 1 2 to about 1 50 still more preferably from about 1 3 to about 1 40 and most preferably from about 1 7 to about 1 35.

When formulated into a product the HMIP s are preferably entrapped within the dispersed oil phase. This necessitates that the oil phase particle size is generally larger than the HMIP. In a preferred embodiment of the invention the oil phase particles contain only a small number of HMIPs per oil particles. Preferably this is less than 20 more preferably less than 10 most preferably less than 5. These parameters the relative size of the oil droplets to the HMIP and the approximate number of HMIP particles per dispersed oil particles can be determined by using visual inspection with light microscopy.

The HMIP and the oil can be mixed into the composition via a premix or separately. For the case of separate addition the hydrophobic pigments partition into the oil phase during the processing of the formulation. The HMIP of the present invention preferably has a hydrophobic coating comprising no more than about 20 weight percent of the total particle weight more preferably no more than about 15 weight percent even more preferably no more than about 10 weight percent. The HMIP of the present invention preferably has a hydrophobic coating comprising at least about 0.1 weight percent of the total particle weight more preferably at least about 0.5 weight percent even more preferably at least about 1 weight percent. Nonlimiting examples of the hydrophobic surface treatment useful herein include silicones acrylate silicone copolymers acrylate polymers alkyl silane isopropyl titanium triisostearate sodium stearate magnesium myristate perfluoroalcohol phosphate perfluoropolymethyl isopropyl ether lecithin carnauba wax polyethylene chitosan lauroyl lysine plant lipid extracts and mixtures thereof preferably silicones silanes and stearates. Surface treatment suppliers include U.S. Cosmetics KOBO Products Inc. and Cardre Inc.

The interference pigments of the present compositions are platelet particulates. The platelet particulates of the present compositions preferably have a thickness of no more than about 5 m more preferably no more than about 2 m still more preferably no more than about 1 m. The platelet particulates of the present composition preferably have a thickness of at least about 0.02 m more preferably at least about 0.05 m even more preferably at least about 0.1 m and still more preferably at least about 0.2 m.

The particle size typically determines the opacity and luster. The particle size is determined by measuring the diameter thickness of the particulate material. The term diameter as used herein means the largest distance across the major axis of the particulate material. Diameter can be determined by any suitable method known in the art such as particle size analyzer Mastersizer 2000 manufactured by Malvern Instruments. The interference pigment of the present compositions preferably have an average diameter not greater than about 200 m more preferably not greater than 100 m even more preferably not greater than about 80 m still more preferably not greater than about 60 m. The interference pigment of the present compositions preferably have a diameter of at least about 0.1 m more preferably at least about 1.0 m even more preferably at least about 2.0 m and still more preferably at least about 5.0 m.

The interference pigment of the present compositions comprises a multilayer structure. The centre of the particulates is a flat substrate with a refractive index RI normally below 1.8. A wide variety of particle substrates are useful herein. Nonlimiting examples are natural mica synthetic mica graphite talc kaolin alumina flake bismuth oxychloride silica flake glass flake ceramics titanium dioxide CaSO CaCO BaSO borosilicate and mixtures thereof preferably mica silica and alumina flakes.

A layer of thin film or a multiple layer of thin films are coated on the surface of a substrate described above. The thin films are made of highly refractive materials. The refractive index of these materials is normally above 1.8.

A wide variety of thin films are useful herein. Nonlimiting examples are TiO FeO SnO CrO ZnO ZnS ZnO SnO ZrO CaF AlO BiOCl and mixtures thereof or in the form of separate layers preferably TiO FeO CrOSnO. For the multiple layer structures the thin films can be consisted of all high refractive index materials or alternation of thin films with high and low RI materials with the high RI film as the top layer.

The interference color is a function of the thickness of thin film the thickness for a specific color may be different for different materials. For TiO a layer of 40 nm to 60 nm or a whole number multiple thereof gives silver color 60 nm to 80 nm yellow color 80 nm to 100 nm red color 100 nm to 130 nm blue color 130 nm to 160 nm green color. In addition to the interference color other transparent absorption pigments can be precipitated on top of or simultaneously with the TiOlayer. Common materials are red or black iron oxide ferric ferrocyanide chromium oxide or carmine. The color of the interference pigment in addition to its brightness can have a significant influence on human perception of skin tone. In general preferred colors are silver gold red green or mixtures thereof.

Non limiting examples of the interference pigments useful herein include those supplied by Persperse Inc. under the trade name PRESTIGE FLONAC supplied by EMD Chemicals Inc. under the trade name TIMIRON COLORONA DICHRONA and XIRONA and supplied by Engelhard Co. under the trade name FLAMENCO TIMICA DUOCHROME .

The compositions of the present invention in some embodiments may further include one or more polymeric thickeners. When present polymeric thickeners are typically incorporated in the present compositions at a level of no more than about 10 preferably no more than about 8 and still more preferably no more than about 7 by weight of the composition. When present the polymeric thickeners are preferably incorporated in the present compositions at a level of at least about 0.01 more preferably at least about 0.05 and still more preferably at least about 0.1 by weight of the composition. It can often be useful to blend different polymeric thickeners together to generate an optimal stability and rheology profile.

Non limiting examples of polymeric thickeners useful herein include carboxylic acid polymers such as the carbomers such as those commercially available under the tradename CARBOPOL 900 series from B. F. Goodrich e.g. CARBOPOL 954 and the Luvigel series from BASF. Other suitable carboxylic acid polymeric agents include copolymers of Calkyl acrylates with one or more monomers of acrylic acid methacrylic acid or one of their short chain i.e. Calcohol esters wherein the crosslinking agent is an allyl ether of sucrose or pentaerythritol. These copolymers are known as acrylates Calkyl acrylate crosspolymers and are commercially available as CARBOPOL 1342 CARBOPOL 1382 CARBOPOL Ultrez 21 CARBOPOL Ultrez 20 CARBOPOL Ultrez 10 PEMULEN TR 1 and PEMULEN TR 2 from B. F. Goodrich.

Other non limiting examples of polymeric thickeners include crosslinked polyacrylate polymers including both cationic and nonionic polymers.

Still other non limiting examples of polymeric thickeners include the polyacrylamide polymers especially nonionic polyacrylamide polymers including substituted branched or unbranched polymers. More preferred among these polyacrylamide polymers is the nonionic polymer given the CTFA designation polyacrylamide and isoparaffin and laureth 7 available under the Tradename SEPIGEL 305 from Seppic Corporation Fairfield N.J. . Other polyacrylamide polymers useful herein include multi block copolymers of acrylamides and substituted acrylamides with acrylic acids and substituted acrylic acids. Commercially available examples of these multi block copolymers include HYPAN SR150H SS500V SS500W SSSA100H from Lipo Chemicals Inc. Patterson N.J. .

Another non limiting class of polymeric thickeners useful herein are the polysaccharides. Non limiting examples of polysaccharide gelling agents include those selected from cellulose and cellulose derivatives. Preferred among the alkyl hydroxyalkyl cellulose ethers is the material given the CTFA designation cetyl hydroxyethylcellulose which is the ether of cetyl alcohol and hydroxyethylcellulose sold under the tradename NATROSEL CS PLUS from Aqualon Corporation Wilmington Del. . Other useful polysaccharides include scleroglucans which are a linear chain of 1 3 linked glucose units with a 1 6 linked glucose every three units a commercially available example of which is CLEAROGEL CS11 from Michel Mercier Products Inc. Mountainside N.J. .

Another non limiting class of polymeric thickeners useful herein are the gums. Non limiting examples of gums useful herein include hectorite hydrated silica xantham gum and mixtures thereof.

Yet another non limiting class of polymeric thickeners useful herein are the modified starches. Acrylate modified starches such as WATERLOCK from Grain Processing Corporation may be used. Hydroxypropyl starch phosphate tradename STRUCTURE XL from National Starch is another example of a useful modified starch and other useful examples include ARISTOFLEX HMB Ammonium Acrylodimethyltaruate Beheneth 25 Methacrylate Crosspolymer from Clariant and cationic stabylens.

Silicones such as polydialkylsiloxanes polydiarylsiloxanes polyalkarylsiloxanes and cylcomethicones having 3 to 9 silicon atoms can be useful optional ingredients in the present compositions. These silicones include both volatile and nonvolatile materials. These silicones are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 069 897 to Orr issued Dec. 3 1991 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. The polyalkylsiloxanes include for example polyalkylsiloxanes with viscosities of from about 0.5 to about 600 000 centistokes at 25 C. Such polyalkylsiloxanes correspond to the general chemical formula RSiO RSiO SiRwherein R is an alkyl group preferably R is methyl or ethyl more preferably methyl and x is an integer chosen to achieve the desired viscosity. Commercially available polyalkylsiloxanes include the polydimethylsiloxanes which are also known as dimethicones nonlimiting examples of which include the VICASIL series sold by General Electric Company and the Dow Corning 200 series sold by Dow Coming Corporation. Cyclic polyalkylsiloxanes useful herein include those corresponding to the general chemical formula SiR O wherein R is an alkyl group preferably R is methyl or ethyl more preferably methyl and n is an integer from about 3 to about 9 more preferably n is an integer from about 3 to about 7 and most preferably n is an integer from about 5 to about 6. When R is methyl these materials are typically referred to as cyclomethicones. Also useful are materials such as trimethylsiloxysilicate which is a polymeric material corresponding to the general chemical formula CH SiO SiO y wherein x is an integer from about 1 to about 500 and y is an integer from about 1 to about 500. A commercially available trimethylsiloxysilicate is sold as a mixture with dimethicone as Dow Coming 593 fluid. Also useful herein are dimethiconols which are hydroxy terminated dimethyl silicones. These materials can be represented by the general chemical formulas RSiO RSiO SiROH and HORSiO RSiO SiROH wherein R is an alkyl group preferably R is methyl or ethyl more preferably methyl . Commercially available dimethiconols are typically sold as mixtures with dimethicone or cyclomethicone e.g. Dow Coming 1401 1402 and 1403 fluids . Also useful herein are polyalkylaryl siloxanes with polymethylphenyl siloxanes having viscosities from about 15 to about 65 centistokes at 25 C. being preferred. These materials are available for example as SF 1075 methylphenyl fluid sold by General Electric Company and 556 Cosmetic Grade phenyl trimethicone fluid sold by Dow Coming Corporation . The silicones described herein can be blended with silicone gums to deliver desirable sensory and skin conditioning benefits. Such blends are commercially available from Dow Coming and GE Silicones. In addition emulsified silicone gums are commercially available and suitable for use in the present compositions.

When present the present compositions typically comprise from about 0.1 to about 25 preferably from about 0.5 to about 20 and more preferably from about 1 to about 10 by weight of the composition of silicone.

The compositions of the present invention can optionally further comprise from about 0.1 to about 30 by weight of the composition of a silicone elastomer component. Preferred levels of silicone elastomer are from about 0.5 to about 30 and more preferably from about 1 to about 20 by weight of the composition.

Suitable for use herein are silicone elastomers which can be emulsifying or non emulsifying crosslinked siloxane elastomers or mixtures thereof. No specific restriction exists as to the type of curable organopolysiloxane composition that can serve as starting material for the crosslinked organopolysiloxane elastomer. Examples in this respect are addition reaction curing organopolysiloxane compositions which cure under platinum metal catalysis by the addition reaction between SiH containing diorganopolysiloxane and organopolysiloxane having silicon bonded vinyl groups condensation curing organopolysiloxane compositions which cure in the presence of an organotin compound by a dehydrogenation reaction between hydroxyl terminated diorganopolysiloxane and SiH containing diorganopolysiloxane and condensation curing organopolysiloxane compositions which cure in the presence of an organotin compound or a titanate ester.

Addition reaction curing organopolysiloxane compositions can be preferred for their rapid curing rates and excellent uniformity of curing. A preferred addition reaction curing organopolysiloxane composition is prepared from 

The compositions of the present invention can optionally include an emulsifying crosslinked organopolysiloxane elastomer a non emulsifying crosslinked organopolysiloxane elastomer or a mixture thereof. The term non emulsifying as used herein defines crosslinked organopolysiloxane elastomers from which polyoxyalkylene units are absent. The term emulsifying as used herein means crosslinked organopolysiloxane elastomers having at least one polyoxyalkylene e.g. polyoxyethylene or polyoxypropylene unit. Preferred emulsifying elastomers herein include polyoxyalkylene modified elastomers formed from divinyl compounds particularly siloxane polymers with at least two free vinyl groups reacting with Si H linkages on a polysiloxane backbone. Preferably the elastomers are dimethyl polysiloxanes crosslinked by Si H sites on a molecularly spherical MQ resin. Emulsifying crosslinked organopolysiloxane elastomers can notably be chosen from the crosslinked polymers described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 412 004 5 837 793 and 5 811 487. In addition an emulsifying elastomer comprised of dimethicone copolyol crosspolymer and dimethicone is available from Shin Etsu under the tradename KSG 21.

Advantageously the non emulsifying elastomers are dimethicone vinyl dimethicone crosspolymers. Such dimethicone vinyl dimethicone crosspolymers are supplied by a variety of suppliers including Dow Coming DC 9040 and DC 9041 General Electric SFE 839 Shin Etsu KSG 15 16 18 dimethicone phenyl vinyl dimethicone crosspolymer and Grant Industries GRANSIL line of elastomers . Cross linked organopolysiloxane elastomers useful in the present invention and processes for making them are further described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 970 252 5 760 116 and 5 654 362. Additional crosslinked organopolysiloxane elastomers useful in the present invention are disclosed in Japanese Patent Application JP 61 18708 assigned to Pola Kasei Kogyo KK.

Commercially available silicone elastomers preferred for use herein are Dow Corning s 9040 silicone elastomer blend Shin Etsu s KSG 21 and mixtures thereof.

The present compositions preferably comprise water. The present compositions will typically comprise at least about 20 preferably at least about 30 more preferably at least about 40 and more preferably at least about 50 by weight of the composition of water.

The present compositions can further comprise optional solvents such as ethanol isopropanol and mixtures thereof. In one embodiment the present compositions comprise less than about 50 preferably less than about 30 and more preferably less than about 10 by weight of the composition of alcohol solvent such as those selected from the group consisting of ethanol isopropanol and mixtures thereof. In one embodiment the present compositions comprise less than about 1 preferably 0 by weight of the composition of alcohol solvent such as those selected from the group consisting of ethanol isopropanol and mixtures thereof.

The present compositions can further comprise additional optional ingredients. Suitable additional optional ingredients include perfume preservatives chelants sensates desquamation actives anti acne actives anti wrinkle anti atrophy actives anti oxidants radical scavengers flavonoids anti inflammatory agents anti cellulite agents topical anesthetics tanning actives skin lightening agents skin soothing and healing actives antimicrobial actives sunscreen actives visual skin enhancers and the like. Such optional ingredients are described more fully in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 658 687 filed Mar. 4 2005.

In one embodiment the present compositions are substantially free or free of active ingredients such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 811 111 at column 8 line 10 to column 10 line 16. In one embodiment the present compositions are substantially free or free of salicylic acid.

The compositions of the present invention will typically have a pH in the range of from about 3 to about 9 preferably from about 4 to about 8 and more preferably from about 5 to about 7.

The compositions of the present invention can be packaged in a variety of suitable containers. Non limiting examples of suitable containers include tubes bottles tottles hand pump containers and the like. The container is typically made of a plastic material. Examples of suitable plastic materials include high density polyethylene HDPE low density polyethylene LDPE polyethylene terephthalate PET polypropylene PP polyvinyl chloride polycarbonate nylon and fluorinated ethylene propylene. The bottle can be made via a number of various processes known in the art such as blow molding injection molding and the like. Preferred bottles of the present invention are made of HDPE or PP via an extrusion blow molding process or PET via an injection blow molding process.

The present invention also relates to methods of cleansing the skin wherein the method comprises contacting the skin with a composition of the present invention and rinsing the skin with water or wiping the skin with a substrate to remove at least a portion of the composition from the skin.

In preferred embodiments the compositions of the present invention are also useful for cleansing and or hydrating skin especially for cleansing of the face and neck areas. Typically a suitable or effective amount of the cleansing composition is applied to the area to be cleansed and or hydrated. Alternatively a suitable amount of the cleansing composition can be applied via intermediate application to a washcloth sponge pad cotton ball or other application device. If desired the area to be cleansed can be premoistened with water. It has been found that the compositions of the present invention can be combined with water during the cleansing process and rinsed off from the skin. Alternatively the composition can be used alone and wiped off from the skin using a pad cotton ball tissue or other like device or substrate. The cleansing process is typically a two step process involving application of the composition followed either by rinsing of the product with water or wiping without the use of water. Generally an effective amount of composition to be used will depend upon the needs and usage habits of the individual.

Lipid rheology is first measured on a TA Instruments AR2000 stress controlled rheometer with a Peltier temperature controlled sample stage or an equivalent. A parallel plate geometry is used with a 40 mm plate and a 1 mm gap. The lower plate is heated to 85 C. and the melted lipid and structurant if present is added onto the lower plate and allowed to equilibrate. The upper plate is then lowered to the 1mm gap while ensuring the lipid fills the gap fully spinning the top plate and adding more lipid to promote wicking and the sample is cooled quickly to 25 C. and equilibrated at 25 C. for 5 minutes. Viscosity is then measured using a stress ramp procedure common on these types of machines using a logarithmic stress ramp from 20 to 2500 Pa for a 2 minute duration with 60 measurements points per decade. The starting and ending stress is sufficient to induce flow and reach a shear rate of at least 10 sec 1. Viscosity is recorded and the data fitted to a power law model using Equation 1. Only points between 0.001 sec 1 and 40 seconds 1 are to be used in the power law fit. The viscosity at 1.0 sec I is calculated from Equation 1. One should carefully watch the sample during the test so that when the material is ejected from under the plate the method is stopped. dot Equation 1 Where viscosity is the consistency and dot is the shear rate and n is the shear index.

The Lipid Modulus Test utilizes the data collected from the Lipid Rheology Test. In this case the data is plotted as stress Pa vs. Strain. The Modulus is obtained by recording the value at 200 strain using visual extrapolation if there is not a data point at 200 strain and dividing this value by 2 200 strain is a strain of 2 to obtain the lipid modulus. In general five samples are run and the high and low values are discarded and the middle three values are averaged to obtain a Lipid Modulus Value.

The following are non limiting examples of compositions of the present invention. The compositions are in the form of cleansing creams or cleansing milks and are suitable for cleansing skin.

The compositions of Examples 1 6 can be made as follows. In a suitable vessel heat the Mix A ingredients with stirring to about 75 C. In a separate vessel heat the Mix B ingredients with stirring to about 75 C. Add Mix B to Mix A with mixing. Add Mix C to Mixes A B. Cool the mixture to about 50 C. and add Mix E with proper mixing to ensure emulsification. Cool mixture to about 35 C. In a separate vessel combine the Mix D ingredients and add to the remaining mixture with stirring.

The compositions of Examples 7 12 can be made as follows. Agitate Mixes A B C until they are dispersed into the water. After polymers and sodium hydroxide are dispersed in water add Mixes A B C into Mix D in a suitable container. While mixing with a propeller heat this mixture to 70 75 C. Add oil phase ingredients together into a suitable container and while mixing with a propeller heat this mixture to 75 80 C. Remove heat and add pre mixes to oil phase while mixing oil phase with a propeller until it is homogeneous. Continue mixing until temperature drops to 45 50 C. add fragrance Glydant Plus and decyl glucoside and continue mixing with a propeller. While mixing with a propeller cool the batch to 35 40 C. ensuring that the batch is smooth and homogeneous. Transfer the batch to containers for storage.

The compositions of Examples 13 15 can be made as follows. Heat deionized water to 85 C. Mix cationic surfactants and high melting point fatty compounds into the water. Add the isopropyl palmitate mineral oil and petrolatum. Maintain the water at a temperature of about 85 C. until the components are homogenized and no solids are observed. Cool the mixture to about 55 C. and maintain at this temperature to form a gel matrix. Maintain the gel matrix at about 50 C. during this time with constant stirring to assure homogenization. When included add other additional components such as perfumes rheology modifiers and preservatives at this point also. After homogenization cool to room temperature.

All documents cited in the Detailed Description of the Invention are in relevant part incorporated herein by reference the citation of any document is not to be construed as an admission that it is prior art with respect to the present invention. To the extent that any meaning or definition of a term in this written document conflicts with any meaning or definition of the term in a document incorporated by reference the meaning or definition assigned to the term in this written document shall govern.

It should be understood that every maximum numerical limitation given throughout this specification will include every lower numerical limitation as if such lower numerical limitations were all expressly written herein. Every minimum numerical limitation given throughout this specification will include every higher numerical limitation as if such higher numerical limitations were all expressly written herein. Every numerical range given throughout this specification will include every narrower numerical range that falls within such broader numerical range as if such narrower numerical ranges were all expressly written herein.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and described it would be obvious to those skilled in the art that various other changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is therefore intended to cover in the appended claims all such changes and modifications that are within the scope of this invention.

