---

title: Control of apoptosis by controlling the propensity of ceramide channel formation
abstract: The present invention relates to a novel target to control the apoptotic process, and to the use of this target to identify compounds capable of affecting the apoptotic process, The invention also relates to the use of such identified compounds in the treatment of cancer, stroke, neurodegenerative diseases, viral diseases and other diseases and conditions involving apoptosis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07897401&OS=07897401&RS=07897401
owner: University of Maryland, College Park
number: 07897401
owner_city: College Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061128
---
This application is a 371 of PCT US06 61268 filed on Nov. 28 2006 now lapsed and claims priority from United States Patent Applications Ser. Nos. 60 740 573 filed on November 29 2005 and 60 804 501 filed on June 12 2006 both of which applications are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made using United States Governmental funds NIH NS042025 . The United States Government may have certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to a novel target to control the apoptotic process and to the use of this target to identify compounds capable of affecting the apoptotic process. The invention also relates to the use of such identified compounds in the treatment of cancer stroke neurodegenerative diseases viral diseases and other diseases and conditions involving apoptosis.

Apoptosis the morphological process leading to the controlled death of a cell is essential for cellular homeostasis in multicellular organisms Perl M. et al. 2005 A Crit. Care Med. 33 12 Suppl S526 S529 . It provides a way of eliminating cells that are damaged or differentiated cells that are no longer necessary. For example in the brain only about half of the embryonic neurons generated are actually present in the adult brain those that do not survive die via apoptosis Snyder S. H. 1999 DFA NM Philos. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B Biol. Sci. 354 1985 1994 Snyder 1999 . However apoptosis can be activated inappropriately in stroke heart disease and neurodegenerative disorders and can result in the unnecessary loss of cells and their associated functions. Apoptosis can also be suppressed inappropriately in tumor cells and cells infected by viruses. Indeed some viruses encode proteins capable of inhibiting the apoptotic process Hardwick J. M. 1998 VIWA Semin. Cell Dev. Biol. 9 339 349 . Further the major treatments used to kill cancer cells radiation and chemotherapy function by inducing apoptosis and cells that become resistant to these treatments often do so by inhibiting the apoptotic process Hannun Y. A. 1997 AATDOCC Blood. 89 1845 1853 . Thus an ability to control apoptosis is of fundamental importance to the treatment of numerous diseases.

There are currently two known pathways for apoptosis an extrinsic pathway and an intrinsic pathway. Extrinsic apoptosis signaling is mediated by the activation of so called death receptors which are cell surface receptors that transmit apoptotic signals after ligation with specific ligands. Death receptors belong to the tumor necrosis factor receptor TNFR gene superfamily including TNFR 1 Fas CD95 and the TRAIL receptors DR 4 and DR 5 Ashkenazi A 2002 TDADROTT NFS Nat. Rev. Cancer 2 6 420 430 .

The mitochondrion is known to act as a major hub for the regulation of intrinsic apoptosis Chen H. et al. 2005 EFOMMFAF Hum Mol Genet. 14 Spec No. 2 R283 R289 Mohamad N. et al. 2005 MAP Biocell. 29 2 149 61 . Early in mitochondria mediated apoptosis there is an increase in the permeability of the mitochondrial outer membrane MOM that leads to the release of intermembrane space proteins including cytochrome c procaspases apoptosis inducing factor AIF heat shock proteins Smac Diablo and endonuclease G Saelens X. et al. 2004 TPRFMICD Oncogene 23 2861 2874 . The release of these proapoptotic proteins into the cytoplasm is crucial for the activation of specific caspases and DNases that are responsible for the execution of apoptosis. The key event of this mitochondrial pathway is the permeabilization of the mitochondrial outer membrane MOM to proteins and the efflux of apoptosis inducing intermembrane space proteins such as cytochrome c into the cytoplasm. The release of these proteins leads to the activation of the caspases that carry out the execution phase of apoptosis Crompton M. 1999 TMPTPAIRICD Biochem. J. 341 233 249 Susin S. A. et al. 1998 MAROA DNM Biochim. Biophys. Acta. 1366 151 165 . Cells can be rescued before this step but are generally fated to die once the proapoptotic proteins have been released from mitochondria. Therefore an understanding of the mechanism for the permeabilization of the MOM to proteins is relevant to developing methods for controlling apoptosis.

A number of mechanisms have been proposed for the protein permeation pathway. Candidates for the composition of this pore include Bax oligomers Antonsson B. et al. 2000 BAX OIRFC FAILATTCC RFM Biochem. J. 345 271 278 Antonsson B. 2001 BAX IPAA HMWO CITMMOAC J. Biol. Chem. 276 11615 11623 Saito M. et al. 2000 BAX DTOCC RIPL Nat. Cell Biol. 2 553 555 Pavlov E. V. et al. 2001 A N HCCOMLTAIMCABAX EIY J. Cell Biol. 155 725 73 the mitochondrial apoptosis induced channel MAC Pavlov E. V. et al. 2001 A N HCCOMLTAIMCABAX EIY J. Cell Biol. 155 725 731 lipidic pores induced by Bax Basa ez G. et al. 1999 BAX BNB XL DTLOPPBMASC Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 96 5492 5497 lipidic pores induced by BH3 Bax lipid interactions Kuwana T. et al. 2002 B BAX ALCTFSOITOMM Cell 111 331 342 Terrones O. et al. 2004 LPFBTCAOPBAX AT J. Biol. Chem. 279 30081 30091 interactions between Bax and ceramide Pastorino J. G. et al. 1999 FCOTSOTABBOTMPTP J. Biol. Chem. 274 31734 31739 and ceramide channels Siskind L. J. et al. 2000 TLC AC CFLSC. IFA J. Biol. Chem. 275 38640 38644 Siskind L. J. et al. 2002 CCITPOTMOMTSP J. Biol. Chem. 277 26796 26803 Siskind L. J. et al. 2003 EACOC CC Biophys. J. 85 1560 1575 .

A variety of assays have been developed to assess apoptosis. For example apoptosis has been assayed using DNA stains able to detect the breakdown of the cell nucleus see for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 248 904 Briant L. et al. 1998 IOES RKMIHIV MCD4 SAONF KB AAP 1 TF J. Immunol. 160 1875 1885 by DNA electrophoresis or flow cytometry see for example Gong J et al. 1994 A SPFDNA EFACAFGEAFC Anal. Biochem. 218 314 319 Belloc F. et al. 1994 A FCMUH33342 APIFSCCAAADIUC Cytometry 17 59 65 Singh N. P. et al. 1994 MOAMEFSDODNA D Int. J. Radiat. Biol. 66 23 28 1994 . Apoptosis has been assayed using caspase assays Darzynkiewicz Z. et al. 2001 FCIAOCCAA Semin Hematol. 38 2 179 93 Riss T. L. 2001 AAA BICT Urology. 57 4 Suppl 1 141 142 Saraste A. et al. 2000 MABHOA Cardiovasc Res. 45 3 528 537 . Various assays have been developed to detect apoptosis based on changes that occur in the permeability of cell membranes see for example Idziorek T. et al. 1995 YOPRO 1 PCAOPCD A WIWCV J. Immunol. Methods 185 249 258 Susin S. A. et al. 1998 MAROA DNM Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1366 151 165 Green D. R. et al. 1998 MAA Science 281 1309 1312 .

Despite all such progress a need remains for improved methods for assaying apoptosis and for identifying compounds that affect apoptosis. The identification of such compounds would provide an ability to control apoptosis and thereby permit the treatment of major diseases such as cancer stroke heart disease neurodegenerative diseases and viral diseases for which current treatments are seriously inadequate. The present invention is directed to these and other needs.

The present invention relates to a novel target to control the apoptotic process and to the use of this target to identify compounds capable of affecting the apoptotic process. The invention also relates to the use of such identified compounds in the treatment of cancer stroke neurodegenerative diseases viral diseases and other diseases and conditions involving apoptosis.

Ceramides are known to have a regulatory function in apoptosis including the release of cytochrome c and other proapoptotic factors from the mitochondrial intermembrane space. Ceramides can form large stable channels in the outer ritochondrial membrane leading to the proposal that ceramide channels are the pathway through which these proteins are released. The present invention derives in part from the recognition that sphingosine a product of ceramide hydrolysis by ceramidase is capable of destabilizing ceramide channels leading to their disassembly. Sphingosine is directly responsible for the disassembly of ceramide channels in planar membrane experiments and markedly reduces the ability of ceramide to induce the release of intermembrane space proteins from mitochondria in vitro. Low concentrations of both L and D sphingosine potentiate the release of intermembrane space proteins by long chain ceramide and channel formation in liposomes. Such potentiation provides a mechanism through which ceramide channel formation is enhanced thus initiating the apoptotic cascade or increasing the likelihood that apoptosis will be initiated. Higher levels of these compounds inhibit ceramide channel formation and induce the disassembly of existing ceramide channels. All this occurs at levels of sphingosine that are at the very low micromolar range. This demonstrates that compounds exist that can either favor or disfavor the formation of ceramide channels. While sphingosine itself would not be a useful therapeutic agent due to the presence of unwanted side effects the identification of the novel drug target of the present invention permits the identification of compounds that would lack such side effects and thus would comprise valuable therapeutic agents. The present invention permits one to identify apoptotic effector compounds by their ability to potentiate or inhibit ceramide channel formation and as such permits one to identify compounds capable of treating diseases involving mitochondria mediated apoptosis. Recent validation of the importance of this target is the discovery that anti apoptotic proteins actually act at this site. Both Bcl xL and a truncated version of CED 9 an anti apoptotic protein found in worms act to inhibit and reverse long chain ceramide induced permeabilization of mitochondrial outer membrane to cytochrome c. In addition in a defined planar phospholipids membrane system both of these proteins caused long chain ceramide channel disassembly. Thus these anti apoptotic proteins target ceramide channels. In detail the invention provides a method for identifying an apoptotic effector compound wherein the method comprises the steps of 

The invention also provides the embodiment of the above method wherein step B is performed prior to performing the step A .

The invention also provides the embodiments of the above methods wherein the conditions A sufficient to permit the formation of ceramide channels comprise providing a ceramide especially wherein the ceramide is C ceramide to the phospholipid membrane.

The invention also provides the embodiments of the above methods wherein the phospholipid membrane is of defined composition and is a planar membrane or a liposome membrane. The invention also provides the sub embodiments of such embodiments wherein the conditions A sufficient to permit the formation of ceramide channels comprise providing an agent selected from the group consisting of nitrous oxide etoposide staurosporine daunorubicin and dexamethasone.

The invention also provides the embodiments of the above methods wherein the phospholipid membrane is a membrane of a mitochondrion or a cellular membrane of a yeast or mammalian cell. The invention also provides the sub embodiments of such embodiments wherein the conditions A sufficient to permit the formation of ceramide channels comprise i providing an agent selected from the group consisting of TNF alpha interleukin 1 nitrous oxide etoposide staurosporine daunorubicin and dexamethasone and or ii subjecting the membrane to ionizing radiation hypoxia or heat and or subjecting the cell to serum withdrawal.

The invention also provides the sub embodiments of the above embodiments wherein the phospholipid membrane is a membrane of a mitochondrion and especially wherein the mitochondrion lacks Bcl 2 proteins.

The invention also provides the sub embodiments of the above embodiments wherein the phospholipid membrane is a cellular membrane of a yeast or mammalian cell and especially wherein the cell is Bax or Bak deficient.

The invention particularly provides the embodiments of all such methods wherein the candidate apoptotic effector compound inhibits the formation or stability of the ceramide channels relative to the extent of such formation or stability observed in the absence of the candidate apoptotic effector compound.

The invention particularly provides the embodiments of all such methods wherein the candidate apoptotic effector compound inhibits the formation of ceramide channels but does not affect the stability of formed ceramide channels relative to the extent of such formation or stability observed in the absence of the candidate apoptotic effector compound.

The invention particularly provides the embodiments of all such methods wherein the candidate apoptotic effector compound induces the formation of or enhances the stability of the ceramide channels relative to the extent of such formation or stability observed in the absence of the candidate apoptotic effector compound.

The invention particularly provides the embodiments of all such methods wherein the candidate apoptotic effector compound inhibits the formation induces the formation of or enhances the stability of the ceramide channels relative to the extent of such formation or stability observed in the absence of the candidate apoptotic effector compound.

The invention further provides an apoptotic effector compound whose apoptotic effect is measured by a method comprising the steps of 

The invention also provides an apoptotic effector compound wherein step B is performed prior to performing the step A .

The invention also provides an apoptotic effector compound wherein the conditions A sufficient to permit the formation of ceramide channels comprise providing a ceramide especially wherein the ceramide is C ceramide to the phospholipid membrane.

The invention also provides an apoptotic effector compound wherein the phospholipid membrane is of defined composition and is a planar membrane or a liposome membrane. The invention also provides the sub embodiments of such embodiments wherein the conditions A sufficient to permit the formation of ceramide channels comprise providing an agent selected from the group consisting of nitrous oxide etoposide staurosporine daunorubicin and dexamethasone.

The invention also provides an apoptotic effector compound wherein the phospholipid membrane is a membrane of a mitochondrion or a cellular membrane of a yeast or mammalian cell. The invention also provides the sub embodiments of such embodiments wherein the conditions A sufficient to permit the formation of ceramide channels comprise i providing an agent selected from the group consisting of TNF alpha interleukin 1 nitrous oxide etoposide staurosporine daunorubicin and dexamethasone and or ii subjecting the membrane to ionizing radiation hypoxia or heat and or subjecting the cell to serum withdrawal.

The invention also provides an apoptotic effector compound wherein the phospholipid membrane is a membrane of a mitochondrion and especially wherein the mitochondrion lacks Bcl 2 proteins.

The invention also provides an apoptotic effector compound wherein the phospholipid membrane is a cellular membrane of a yeast or mammalian cell and especially wherein the cell is Bax or Bak deficient.

The invention particularly provides an apoptotic effector compound which inhibits the formation or stability of the ceramide channels relative to the extent of such formation or stability observed in the absence of the candidate apoptotic effector compound.

The invention particularly provides an apoptotic effector compound which inhibits the formation of ceramide channels but does not affect the stability of formed ceramide channels relative to the extent of such formation or stability observed in the absence of the candidate apoptotic effector compound.

The invention particularly provides an apoptotic effector compound which induces the formation of or enhances the stability of the ceramide channels relative to the extent of such formation or stability observed in the absence of the candidate apoptotic effector compound.

The invention particularly provides an apoptotic effector compound which inhibits the formation induces the formation of or enhances the stability of the ceramide channels relative to the extent of such formation or stability observed in the absence of the candidate apoptotic effector compound.

The present invention relates to the identification of a novel target for controlling apoptosis to novel methods for identifying compounds capable of affecting the apoptotic process i.e. apoptotic effector compounds and to the use of such compounds in the treatment of cancer stroke neurodegenerative diseases viral diseases and other diseases and conditions involving apoptosis. The present invention derives in part from the recognition 1 that cellular apoptosis involves the release of mitochondrial cytochrome c and other compounds 2 that such release is mediated by ceramide channels that pierce the mitochondrial outer membrane MOM 3 and that compounds which assist in the formation or stabilization of such channels can be used to induce apoptosis. Conversely compounds which inhibit ceramide channel formation or which destabilize such channels can be used to inhibit apoptosis.

Sphingolipids are a class of lipids derived from the aliphatic amino alcohol sphingosine. The sphingosine backbone can be O linked usually to a charged head group such as choline. The backbone is also amide linked to an acyl group such as a fatty acid 

Ceramides are a class of sphingolipids in which the R substituent is hydrogen e.g. N hexanoyl D erythro sphingosine C ceramide which is a typical naturally occurring long chain ceramide 

Ceramides are found in a variety of cell membranes in organisms ranging from yeast to humans. There are a number of observations that support a proapoptotic role for ceramide in apoptosis 

There is accumulating evidence that ceramide is involved in neuronal cell death. In primary neuronal cell cultures exogenous ceramide causes dose dependent apoptotic cell death and ceramide levels are increased after various apoptotic stimuli Lambeng N. et al. 1999 MOAIPC12 CIDWNGFACAMP Brain Res. 821 60 68 Movsesyan V. A. et al. 2002 CINATTC 9 C 3 P Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 299 201 207 Stoica S. C. et al. 2003 HSP INOSAAMITAPOHCT Eur. J. Cardiothorac. Surg. 24 932 939 Taniwaki T. et al. 1999 CIATICGCIC Neurochem Res. 24 685 690 Toman R. E. et al. 2002 C ICDIPNC UOCLDNA J. Neurosci. Res. 68 323 330 and Willaime Morawek S. et al. 2005 IGF I PCNAC IAVAOTPI 3K AKT AERK P ITPIOCREB ABCL 2 Brain Res Mol Brain Res. 142 97 106 . Ceramide has been shown to be involved in neuronal death during development Bieberich E. et al. 2003 ROCDIMNPCBADOPAR4 PAR 4 ASEOEC J. Cell Biol. 162 469 479 as well as in models of acute or chronic neurodegenerative disorders such as cerebral ischemia Nakane M. et al. 2000 LFISSHACGITGH Neurosci Lett. 296 89 92 and Alzheimer s disease AD Lee J. T. et al. 2004 A BPIODBATNS CP J. Cell Biol. 164 123 131 Han X. M. et al. 2002 SSDACEIVEAD PRIDP J. Neurochem. 82 809 818 Gupta A. et al. 2003 IAAD Int. J. Clin. Pract. 57 36 39 . For example transient focal cerebral ischemia induces large increases in acid sphingomyelinase activity aSMase ceramide levels and production of inflammatory cytokines in wild type mice mice deficient in aSMase or inhibition of ceramide production in wild type mice with an aSMase inhibitor significantly reduced ischemic neuronal injury and improved behavioral outcome. Similarly in CSF and brain tissue astroglia obtained from AD patients there are increased levels of ceramide as well as the increase of intra and extracellular ceramide levels in retinoic acid RA induced neuronal apoptosis Satoi H. et al. 2005 AEOCIADB A RDNA Neuroscience 130 657 666 . Cutler et al. 2004 IOOS IAICACMIBAGING AAD Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 101 7 2070 2075 documented significant increases in levels of long chain ceramides in brain cells during normal aging in mice in AD patients and in neurons exposed to A and this intracellular accumulation of ceramides and the neurotoxicity of A were blocked by an inhibitor of ceramide production. Studies have established a role for mitochondria specifically in ceramide induced neuronal cell death. For example mitochondrial depolarization and permeabilization occur after ceramide exposure Stoica S. C. et al. 2003 HSP INOSAAMITAPOHCT Eur. J. Cardiothorac. Surg. 24 932 939 and lead to activation of the intrinsic caspase cascade pathway Movsesyan V. A. et al. 2002 CINATTC 9 C 3 P Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 299 201 207 .

The addition of ceramide to isolated mitochondria results in the release of cytochrome c apoptosis inducing factor AIF AK 2 and adenylate kinase Siskind L. J. et al. 2002 CCITPOTMOMTSP J. Biol. Chem. 277 26796 26803 Arora A. S. et al. 1997 CIHCDTDOMFITR Hepatology 25 958 963 Ghafourifar P. et al. 1999 CICC RFIM. IOMRS J. Biol. Chem. 274 6080 6084 Di Paola M. et al. 2000 CIWTRCOHM Biochemistry 39 6660 6668 Di Paola M. et al. 2004 CIROP APFMBEA CA2 DOA CA2 IM J. Bioenerg. Biomembr. 36 165 170 . Both the short chain model compound N acetyl D erythro sphingosine C ceramide 

The mechanism of this release is most likely the formation of large channels in the mitochondrial outer membrane MOM since a whole range of intermembrane space proteins are released up to a molecular mass cutoff of 60 kDa Siskind L. J. et al. 2002 CCITPOTMOMTSP J. Biol. Chem. 277 26796 26803 . The exact nature of these large channels is unknown but the same ceramides form large channels 10 nm in diameter in phospholipids membranes lacking any proteins demonstrating that these lipids are sufficient but other components are likely to be involved. The properties of ceramide channels are consistent with a barrel stave structure Siskind L. J. et al. 2000 TLC AC CFLSC. IFA J. Biol. Chem. 275 38640 38644 Siskind L. J. et al. 2003 EACOF C CC Biophys. J. 85 1560 1575 .

The channels formed by ceramides in planar phospholipid and mitochondrial outer membranes are both large and sufficiently stable to mediate a regulatory function in apoptosis including the release of cytochrome c and other proapoptotic factors from the mitochondrial intermembrane space Siskind L. J. 2005 MCATIOA J. Bioenerg. Biomem. 37 143 153 Siskind L. J. et al. 2000 TLC AC CFLSCIM. IFA J. Biol. Chem. 275 39640 39644 Siskind L. J. et al. 2003 EACOC CC Biophys. J. 85 1560 1575 Siskind L. J. et al. 2005 SFCIMTDGFTFBy C J. Bioenerg. Biomembr. 37 227 236 Siskind L. J. et al. 2002 CCITPOTMOMTSP J. Biol. Chem. 277 26796 26803 . The channels have estimated diameters of between 6 and 10 nm and open channel lifetimes of several minutes Siskind L. J. et al. 2002 CCITPOTMOMTSP J. Biol. Chem. 277 26796 26803 Siskind L. J. et al. 2003 EACOC CC Biophys. J. 85 1560 1575 Siskind L. J. et al. 2006 CFCIMOMAPRC Mitochondrion 6 3 118 125 . Such attributes are extremely remarkable given that the channel structure is comprised of hundreds of ceramide monomers held together via a hydrogen bonded network lining the channel lumen Siskind L. J. et al. 2003 EACOC CC Biophys. J. 85 1560 1575 Anishkin A. et al. 2006 SFTMAOTCC Biophys. J. 90 2414 2426 . Even more remarkable is the recognition that these channels comprise a pathway through which proapoptotic proteins are released from mitochondria during the induction phase of apoptosis Si skind L. J. et al. 2005 SFCIMTDGFTFBC J. Bioenerg. Biomembr. 37 227 236 .

Consistent with such conclusions is the observation that the ceramide channels can disassemble in a way which results in large conductance decrements that are multiples of 4.0 nS. Since a cylindrical channel with a large diameter will have a conductance that is proportional to its circumference due to the access resistance such conductance decrements strongly indicate that the disassembly involves multiples of 2 ceramide columns forming the wall of the channel. Without intending to limit the present invention it is believed that the columns respond as pairs because they are aligned in an antiparallel fashion and held together by the attraction of dipoles arising from the oriented amide linkages oriented in opposite directions.

Bolstering the conclusion that channels formed in the MOM are composed of ceramide molecules as opposed to ceramide merely acting as a trigger for the formation of another pore was the observation that the impermeability of the MOM to proteins could be restored by removing ceramide. Fatty acid depleted albumin effectively reversed the permeabilization of the MOM by short chain ceramide. Albumin binds this form of ceramide and thus the reversal indicates a dynamic equilibrium between ceramides in the channel with the rest of the ceramide in the membrane and when ceramide is removed by binding to the albumin the channels disassemble Siskind L. J. et al. 2002 CCITPOTMOMTSP J. Biol. Chem. 277 26796 26803 . The fact that the same result was not achieved with C ceramide is understandable due to the exceedingly low aqueous solubility of long chain ceramide. In many respects C ceramide and C ceramide behave similarly. For example the permeabilization of the MOM was remarkably similar whether ceramide or C ceramide was used in the experiment Siskind L. J. et al. 2002 CCITPOTMOMTSP J. Biol. Chem. 277 26796 26803 .

Evidence of physiological relevance can be seen in the finding that ceramide levels become elevated early in the apoptotic process. Moreover in MOMs the ceramide channels have been found to be able to release proteins as large as 60 kDa from the intermembrane space. This cut off is significant because it is in line with the size of proapoptotic proteins that are released from mitochondria during the induction phase of apoptosis. Ceramide channel formation in MOMs requires only 2 to 4 pmoles of ceramide per nmole mitochondrial phospholipids Siskind L. J. 2005 MCATIOA J. Bioenerg. Biomem. 37 143 153 . A typical ceramide level at the early stages of apoptosis is 4 pmol ceramide nmole phospholipids. At this molar ratio ceramide effectively permeabilizes the outer membrane to cytochrome c Siskind L. J. et al. 2006 CFCIN MOMAPRC Mitochondrion 6 3 118 125 . This level of ceramide is on the order of the level of mitochondrial ceramide increase found during the induction phase of apoptosis before or at the time of cytochrome c release. Mitochondrial ceramide levels have been found to increase by about 6.5 pmol ceramide nmol phospholipid in MCF7 cells treated with TNF Birbes H. et al. 2005 A MPOSIIIT IBAX TTM Biochem. J. 386 445 451 . Garcia Ruiz et al. 1997 DEOCON TMETCLTGOROS. ROMG J. Biol. Chem. 272 11369 11377 reported a similar increase in isolated mitochondria from TNF treated hepatocytes an increase of about 4.5 pmol ceramide nmole phospholipid . radiation of Jurkat cells induced the formation of 4 pmol mitochondrial ceramide per mmole phospholipid Rodriguez Lafrasse C. et al. 2002 IECUIOSMMIR IMIAACK Int. J. Cancer 101 589 598 . Thus controlling the rate of ceramide synthesis ceramide hydrolysis ceramide delivery to mitochondria or the propensity for ceramide channel formation may all be ways to control the onset of mitochondria mediated apoptosis and thus treat a variety of diseases. Finally the enzymes catalyzing the metabolic pathways leading to both ceramide synthesis and breakdown are known to be present in mitochondria El Bawab S. et al. 2000 MCACOA HMC J. Biol. Chem. 275 21508 21513 Shimeno H. et al. 1998 PPACOSN ACSFBLM RF Lipids 33 601 605 Bionda C. et al. 2004 SCOCM MAM M AMA OM Biochem. J. 382 527 533 . Taken together these facts indicate that the ceramide channel is the permeability pathway through the mitochondrial outer membrane for protein flux.

In contrast significantly higher ceramide phospholipids ratios are needed to permeabilize the cell s plasma membranes e.g. a 20 fold higher ratio is needed to permeabilize an erythrocyte membrane . Thus ceramide channel formation shows high specificity for the MOM. The specificity is not due to differential partitioning of ceramide in these membranes but to intrinsic differences between these membranes. The high concentration of ceramide required for formation of channels in planar phospholipid membranes such as erythrocyte membranes suggests that such membranes contain an inhibitor which inhibits the formation of ceramide channels for example sphingomyelin . Sphingomyelin is known to interact with ceramide and can thus divert ceramide from channel formation.

It is clear that apoptosis is fundamental to a variety of normal and disease processes and that ceramide is a key signaling molecule in apoptosis. The present invention provides a means for controlling the apoptotic process and thus provides agents that can inhibit or induce apoptosis in a variety of cell types for treatment of a variety of pathological conditions. Cells that initiate the apoptotic pathway are already weakened and targeting downstream events such as the activation of caspases with small molecular weight caspase inhibitors does not prevent the release of cytochrome c and other proteins from the mitochondria. Loss of these proteins from the mitochondria only weakens the cell further. If the goal is to prevent apoptosis or necrosis then it is desirable to address that goal in a manner which minimizes cell damage. The process should therefore be inhibited early upstream of mitochondrial release of cytochrome c and other proteins. The present invention provides a molecular target for apoptotic induction or intervention that relates to the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria a step that precedes the activation of most caspases. Thus the present invention provides an advantage over therapeutic approaches that focus on controlling or preventing apoptosis through caspase inhibition.

Compounds that can cross membranes and have specific effects on ceramide channel formation are useful both to the importance of ceramide channel formation in various forms of apoptosis and as drugs to treat diseases involving apoptosis e.g. cancer stroke neurodegenerative diseases viral diseases etc. . The present invention by providing a molecular mechanism for apoptosis permits the identification of compounds that potentiate or inhibit the apoptotic process. Thus one aspect of the present invention relates to methods of identifying novel compounds capable of affecting apoptosis. Such identification can be accomplished by 

In one embodiment such methods comprise screening compounds for their ability to influence the formation of ceramide channels in liposomes or planar membranes. A variety of small molecules that effect ceramide channels have been identified in this manner for example sugars such as trehalose have been found to exhibit a potent inhibitory effects at 50 mM sphingosine has been found to be a very potent inhibitor at 5 M . Such liposomes or planar membranes can be produced using any of a variety of lipids. Preferably however the constituents of the liposomes or planar membranes will be selected to mimic those of the MOM or to have relevance to such membranes see Weissig V. et al. 2006 LAL LVFDADNA DT J. Liposome Res. 16 3 249 264 Torchilin V. P. 2006 RATIDODDNA AOT Annu. Rev. Biomed. Eng. 8 343 375 Elrick M. J. et al. 2006 S A POCH ITFOCC Biophys. J. 1 91 5 1749 1756 Bathori G. et al. 2006 CA2 DCOTPPOTMOMAV DA SC VDAC J. Biol. Chem. 281 25 17347 17358 Stiban J. et al. 2006 DHCCF IOA Apoptosis 11 5 773 780 Stover T. C. et al. 2005 SDOLS CCLSTGIMMOBA Clin. Cancer Res. 11 9 3465 3474 .

In an alternative embodiment candidate compounds can be screened for their effect on ceramide channel formation using mitochondrial membranes. Such membranes can be produced from their constituent compositions or more preferably whole mitochondria may be isolated and employed especially mitochondria that lack Bcl 2 proteins . Yeast and mammalian mitochondria are particularly preferred. For example isolated mitochondria may be treated with ceramide for a period of time e.g. 10 min followed by addition of a candidate compound and the effect of the candidate compound on ceramide induced MOM permeability determined. Such a screening assay has been validated using sphingosine which is able to close ceramide channels after they have formed dihydroceramide did not exhibit this effect during a similar time span . This difference is important in applications in which a compound is being screened for its ability to stop an ongoing apoptotic process.

In a further alternative embodiment candidate compounds can be screened for their effect on ceramide channel formation using the membranes of cells i.e. cellular membranes . Such membranes can be produced from their constituent compositions or more preferably whole cells may be isolated and employed. Although any of a variety of cell types may be employed for this purpose it is particularly desirable to employ eukaryotic cells especially yeast or mammalian cells. Kidney epithelial cells e.g. baby mouse kidney epithelial BMK cells are preferred. It is moreover desirable to employ parental and or Bax Bak deficient e.g. knock out variants. Mitochondria from such cell lines are sensitive to ceramide induced permeabilization of the outer membrane. In accordance with such an assay apoptosis is induced with TNF alpha hypoxia and or by addition of either C ceramide or C ceramide and the test compound and the effect of the test compound on channel formation or channel stability is determined.

In a preferred embodiment the assays of the present invention will be high throughput assays designed to process large numbers e.g. 50 of candidate compounds simultaneously for example by conducting such assays using microtiter plates. As will be appreciated candidate compounds may be tested alone or in conjunction with other compounds. For example a candidate compound may be used alone to determine if it will stabilize or inhibit ceramide channel formation or it may be used in combination with a known effector e.g. sphingosine trehalose etc. or a non effector e.g. dihydroceramide or with one or more additional candidate compound s to determine or identify an antagonistic or synergistic effect.

Apoptotic effector compounds have therapeutic potential see Solary E. et al. 1996 TROAITPATOD Eur. Respir. J. 9 1293 1305 . Apoptotic effector compounds that act to inhibit or reverse apoptosis have therapeutic application in the treatment of diseases in which apoptosis is undesired. In stroke for example there is a combination of necrotic cell death and apoptotic cell death. Compounds that inhibit apoptosis by inhibiting ceramide channel formation have the ability to rescue cells that would otherwise die through apoptosis. An increased rate of cell death underlies multiple neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer s disease Huntington s disease Parkinson s disease etc. Deigner H P. et al. 2000 AMITTOND Exp. Opin. Invest. Drugs 9 4 747 764 . Apoptotic effector compounds capable of inhibiting or reversing apoptosis thus may be used in the treatment of such diseases.

Viruses for example Kaposi sarcoma associated herpes virus KSHV herpesvirus saimiri HVS and Epstein Barr virus EBV contain viral genes that mimic those that the host uses to regulate cell growth and apoptosis Hardwick J. M. 1998 VIWA Semin. Cell Dev. Biol. 9 339 349 . Such viruses are able to survive in the host cell and successfully replicate by interfering with the host cell s death and survival machinery. KSHV HVS and EBV encode Bcl 2 homologs called KsBcl 2 ORF16 and BHRF1 respectively. In gene transfer studies these proteins have been shown to block apoptosis induced by various stimuli Henderson S. et al. 1993 EBV CBHRF1 P A VHOBCL 2 PHB CFPCD Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 90 8479 8483 Takayama S. et al. 1994 ECOFAM A AVHOTBCL 2 O DNA Cell Biol. 13 679 692 Tarodi B. et al. 1994 E BVBHRF1 PPACDIBDNA DAAHVI Virology 201 404 407 . One aspect of the present invention derives from the recognition that such proteins protect against apoptosis through inhibition of ceramide channels whether by interacting directly with ceramide or decreasing the local mitochondrial ceramide concentration . As such apoptotic effector compounds capable of inducing apoptosis may be used in the treatment of such viral infections.

Likewise defects in the apoptosis process appear to be responsible for the ability of cancer cells to escape control and develop into tumors Lowel S. W. 2000 AIC Carcinogenesis 21 3 485 495 . Indeed it has been proposed that chemotherapy mediates its anti cancer effect by initiating apoptosis in the malignant cells and that cells resistant to chemotherapy have damaged apoptotic response processes Schmitt C. A. et al. 1999 AAT J. Pathol. 187 1 127 137 Johnstone. R. W. et al. 2002 A A LBCGAC Cell 108 2 153 164 . Accordingly apoptotic effector compounds capable of inducing apoptosis may be used in the treatment of cancer including breast cancer head and neck cancer lung cancer colon cancer skin cancer pancreatic cancer prostate cancer stomach cancer brain cancer etc. .

The apoptotic effector compounds of the present invention may be employed as pharmaceutical agents provided in therapeutically effective amounts to effect the treatment of diseases and conditions. The term treatment as used herein covers any treatment of a disease especially in a mammal and particularly in a human and includes i preventing the disease from occurring in a subject which may be predisposed to the disease but has not yet been diagnosed as having it ii inhibiting the disease i.e. arresting its development or iii relieving the disease i.e. causing regression of the disease. As used herein the term therapeutically effective amount refers to that amount of an apoptotic effector compound which when administered to a mammal in need thereof is sufficient to effect treatment as defined above . The amount that constitutes a therapeutically effective amount will vary depending on the apoptotic effector compound being administered the condition or disease and its severity and the mammal to be treated its weight age etc. but may be determined routinely by one of ordinary skill in the art with regard to contemporary knowledge and to this disclosure.

Accordingly another aspect of the invention relates to pharmaceutical compositions and methods of treating a mammal in need thereof by administering therapeutically effective amounts of one or more apoptotic effector compound s or pharmaceutically acceptable salt s thereof. By pharmaceutically acceptable salt is intended to mean a salt that retains the biological effectiveness and properties of the apoptotic effector compound. Salts may be derived from acids or bases. Acid addition salts are derived from inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid giving the sulfate and bisulfate salts nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like and organic acids such as acetic acid propionic acid glycolic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid malic acid malonic acid succinic acid maleic acid fumaric acid tartaric acid citric acid benzoic acid cinnamic acid mandelic acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid salicylic acid p toluenesulfonic acid and the like. Base addition salts may be derived from inorganic bases and include sodium potassium lithium ammonium calcium magnesium salts and the like. Salts derived from organic bases include those formed from primary secondary and tertiary amines substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines and cyclic amines including isopropylamine trimethylamine diethylamine triethylamine tripropylamine ethanolamine 2 dimethylaminoethanol tromethamine lysine arginine histidine caffeine procaine hydrabamine choline betaine ethylenediamine glucosamine N alkylglucamines theobromine purines piperazine piperidine N ethylpiperidine and the like. Preferred organic bases are isopropylamine diethylamine ethanolamine piperidine tromethamine and choline.

The pharmaceutical compositions will typically include a conventional pharmaceutical carrier or excipient and an apoptotic effector compound of the present invention and in addition may include other medicinal agents pharmaceutical agents carriers adjuvants etc. Carriers can be selected from the various oils including those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin for example peanut oil soybean oil mineral oil sesame oil and the like. Water saline aqueous dextrose and glycols are preferred liquid carriers particularly for injectable solutions. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers include starch cellulose talc glucose lactose sucrose gelatin malt rice flour chalk silica gel magnesium stearate sodium stearate glycerol monostearate sodium chloride dried skim milk glycerol propylene glycol water ethanol and the like. Other suitable pharmaceutical carriers and their formulations are described in Gennaro A. R. R TSAPOP 21 st Ed. Lippincott Williams Wilkins 2005 and Allen L. V. et al. APDFADDS Lippincott Williams Wilkins 2004 . Such pharmaceutical compositions may provide site specific release of the apoptotic effector compounds.

The percentage of the active ingredient contained in such compositions is highly dependent on the specific nature thereof as well as the activity of the compound and the needs of the subject. However percentages of effector compound of 0.001 to 10 in solution are employable and will be higher if the composition is a solid which will be subsequently diluted to the above percentages. Preferably the composition will comprise 0.002 8 of the active ingredient in solution.

Administration can be via any accepted systemic or local route for example via parenteral oral particularly for infant formulations intravenous nasal bronchial inhalation i.e. aerosol formulation intraocular intra aural transdermal or topical routes in the form of solid semi solid or liquid or aerosol dosage forms such as for example tablets pills capsules powders liquids solutions emulsion injectables suspensions suppositories aerosols or the like. Parenteral administration is generally characterized by injection either subcutaneously intramuscularly or intravenously and can include intradermal or intraperitoneal injections as well as intrasternal injection or infusion techniques. The apoptotic effector compounds of the present invention can also be administered in sustained or controlled release dosage forms including depot or bolus injections infusions osmotic pumps pills transdermal including electrotransport patches and the like for the prolonged administration of the polypeptide at a predetermined rate preferably in unit dosage forms suitable for single administration of precise dosages. A typical daily dose of an apoptotic effector compound of the present invention can be administered by one infusion or by a series of infusions spaced over periodic intervals. For parenteral administration there are especially suitable aqueous solutions of an active ingredient in water soluble form for example in the form of a water soluble salt or aqueous injection suspensions that contain viscosity increasing substances for example sodium carboxymethylcellulose sorbitol and or dextran and if desired stabilizers. The active ingredient optionally together with excipients can also be in the form of a lyophilisate and can be made into a solution prior to parenteral administration by the addition of suitable solvents. A more recently devised approach for parenteral administration employs the implantation of a slow release or sustained release system such that a constant level of dosage is maintained. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 710 795 5 714 166 and 5 041 292 which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Aerosol administration is an effective means for delivering the apoptotic inhibitors of the present invention directly to the respiratory tract. Some of the advantages of this method are 1 it circumvents the effects of enzymatic degradation poor absorption from the gastrointestinal tract or loss of the therapeutic agent due to the hepatic first pass effect 2 it administers active ingredients which would otherwise fail to reach their target sites in the respiratory tract due to their molecular size charge or affinity to extra pulmonary sites 3 it provides for fast absorption into the body via the alveoli of the lungs and 4 it avoids exposing other organ systems to the active ingredient which is important where exposure might cause undesirable side effects. For these reasons aerosol administration is particularly advantageous for treatment of asthma local infections of the lung and other diseases or disease conditions of the lung and respiratory tract. There are three types of pharmaceutical inhalation devices nebulizers inhalers metered dose inhalers and dry powder inhalers. Nebulizer devices produce a stream of high velocity air that causes the protein derivative which has been formulated in a liquid form to spray as a mist that is carried into the patient s respiratory tract. Metered dose inhalers typically have the formulation packaged with a compressed gas and upon actuation discharge a measured amount of the polypeptide by compressed gas thus affording a reliable method of administering a set amount of agent. Dry powder inhalers administer the polypeptide in the form of a free flowing powder that can be dispersed in the patient s air stream during breathing by the device. In order to achieve a free flowing powder the protein derivative is formulated with an excipient such as lactose. A measured amount of the protein derivative is stored in a capsule form and is dispensed to the patient with each actuation. All of the above methods can be used for administering apoptotic effector compounds of the present invention.

Pharmaceutical formulations based on liposomes are also suitable for use with the polymer modified synthetic bioactive proteins of this invention. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 631 018 5 723 147 and 5 766 627. The benefits of liposomes are believed to be related to favorable changes in tissue distribution and pharmacokinetic parameters that result from liposome entrapment of drugs and may be applied to the polypeptides of the present invention by those skilled in the art. Controlled release liposomal liquid pharmaceutical formulations for injection or oral administration can also be used.

For systemic administration via suppository traditional binders and carriers include for example polyethylene glycols or triglycerides for example PEG 1000 96 and PEG 4000 4 . Such suppositories may be formed from mixtures containing the active ingredient in the range of from about 0.5 w w to about 10 w w preferably from about 1 w w to about 2 w w .

Having now generally described the invention the same will be more readily understood through reference to the following examples which are provided by way of illustration and are not intended to be limiting of the present invention unless specified.

Planar phospholipid membranes were produced by the monolayer method Montal M. et al. 1972 FOBMFLMAA SOTEP Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 69 3561 3566 as modified by Colombini M. 1987 COCIFPM Methods Enzymol. 148 465 475 across a 100 m diameter hole in a Saran partition. Monolayers were produced using a solution of 0.5 w v asolectin 0.5 w v DiPhyPC 0.1 w v cholesterol in hexane. This technique produces solvent free phospholipid membranes whose lipid composition focusing on the polar head groups is similar to that found in the mitochondrial outer membrane. It differs from the natural membrane in lacking proteins.

The aqueous solutions contained 1 mM MgCl and 5 mM Pipes pH 6.8 with KCl varying from 0.10 M to 1.0 M. The KCl concentration on one side of the membrane referred to as the trans side was always 0.10 M whereas the other side the cis side was adjusted as needed. The transmembrane voltage was electronically clamped and the current through the membrane was recorded. The voltage values indicated are the voltage differences across the membrane cis side minus trans side.

C ceramide was stirred into the aqueous solution on each side of the membrane from a solution in DMSO generally 0.5 mg ml. Single or multiple additions typically 201 each yielding a final concentration of 2 g ml were made to achieve a desired level of conductance. Sphingosine additions of 5 l were made from a solution in DMSO 4 mg mL yielding a final concentration of 4 g mL.

Rat liver mitochondria were isolated by differential centrifugation of tissue homogenate essentially as described by Parsons D. F. et al. 1966 COIAPPOTOAIMOM Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 137 643 666 . The preparation yielded a mitochondrial suspension containing 10 mg of protein per mL. 20 l of a mitochondrial suspension were diluted into 1.2 ml of 70 mM sucrose 210 mM mannitol 0.1 mM EGTA 1 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 yielding a final protein concentration of 0.15 mg mL. The mitochondria were incubated for 10 min at room temperature with varying amounts of ceramide added from a 4 mg ml DMSO solution to determine the amount of ceramide that resulted in a 50 release of adenylate kinase. The mitochondria were then pelleted at 14 000 g for 5 min at 4 C. and the supernatant was kept on ice until assayed. 100 l of supernatant was added to 700 l of adenylate kinase reaction mixture 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 5 mM MgSO4 10 mM glucose 5 mM ADP 0.2 mM NADP 10 units of hexokinase and 10 units of glucose 6 phosphate dehydrogenase Sottocasa G. L. et al. 1967 SASEPOTIAOMORLM Methods Enzymol. 10 448 463 . The enzymes were added to the rest of the reaction mixture 1 min before the addition of the mitochondrial supernatant to allow a trace of ATP to be consumed. The activity of adenylate kinase was detected as an increase in absorbance at 340 nm. Since the activity of the kinase decays with time even on ice experiments were performed in sets and the activity of the first supernatant was assayed again at the end of the set. The values were fitted to a first order decay and all values within the set were corrected for the decay of the activity based on the time delay before assay.

To determine the effect of sphingosine pretreatment on ceramide permeabilization of the mitochondrial outer membrane mitochondria were incubated at room temperature in the presence of varying concentrations of sphingosine for S min before addition of ceramide and incubation for 10 min. Untreated mitochondria and mitochondria hypotonically lysed 20 l into 1.2 ml water served as negative and positive controls respectively.

Experiments with C ceramide were performed in a similar way except as follows. The mitochondria were suspended in the above medium except that the 1 mM Tris buffer was replaced by 5 mM HEPES. To 1.0 mL of this medium at room temperature RT was added 17 L of mitochondrial suspension that had been kept on ice at a concentration of 4 mg mL. The final mitochondrial protein concentration during the experiment was 80 g mL. In the case of shocked mitochondria the 1.0 mL of medium was replaced by water. Sphingosine was added where appropriate from a 0.25 mg mL solution in DMSO. Typically 4 7 incubations were run in parallel. All samples were incubated for 5 min at RT. Then some samples received 0.4 mL of fatty acid depleted bovine serum albumin BSA 25 mg mL followed immediately by 20 L of C ceramide dissolved in isopropanol at 2 mg mL. After a 10 min incubation at RT 10 L of 4 mM PMSF was added followed by centrifugation. In these experiments 0.3 mL of mitochondrial supernatant was added to the adenylate kinase reaction mixture.

The polar extract of soybean phospholipids Avanti Polar Lipids Alabaster Ala. and cholesterol Sigma Chemical St. Louis Mo. were mixed in a 93 7 molar ratio in chloroform and dried under nitrogen followed by drying in vacuo overnight. This mixture resembles the lipid content of mammalian mitochondrial outer membranes. Five mg of this mixture were dispersed in 1 mL of 39 mM NaCl 6 mM DPX Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. 1.5 mM carboxyfluorescein Acros Organics Geel Belgium and subjected to four freeze thaw sonication cycles. After extrusion through a 0.2 m filter Avanti Polar Lipids for 13 passes it was run through a gel filtration column equilibrated and eluted with 50 mM NaCl 10 mM HEPES 1 mM EDTA pH 7.0. The liposomes were used within 30 h. Twenty five microliters of liposomes were dispersed into 2.0 mL of the elution buffer and placed into a quartz fluorescence cuvette. The fluorescence was monitored using a Deltascan Spectrofluorometer Photon Technology Instruments West Sussex UK using excitation at 495 nm and emission at 520 nm. Forty microliters of C ceramide 2 mg mL of isopropanol were added while stirring. Sphingosine was added from either a 1 mg mL or a 0.1 mg mL solution in DMSO.

Ceramide has been previously shown to increase the permeability of the MOM to small intermembrane space proteins such as cytochrome c and adenylate kinase Siskind L. J. et al. 2002 CCITPOTMOMTSP J. Biol. Chem. 277 26796 26803 Arora A. S. et al. 1997 CIHCDTDOMFITR Hepatology 25 958 963 Ghafourifar P. et al. 1999 CICC RFIM. IOMRS J. Biol. Chem. 274 6080 6084 Di Paola M. et al. 2000 CIWTRCOHM Biochemistry 39 6660 6668 Di Paola M. et al. 2004 CIROP APFMBEA CA2 DOA CA2 IM J. Bioenerg. Biomembr. 36 165 170 . Sphingosine has been reported to form channels but these are small and incapable of allowing proteins to cross membranes Siskind L. J. et al. 2005 SFCIMTDGFTFBC J. Bioenerg. Biomembr. 37 227 236 . Thus the presence of both ceramide and sphingosine in a membrane may result in hybrid structures that may or may not be conductive. The release of adenylate kinase was used as a measure of MOM permeabilization to small proteins.

To look for interaction between sphingosine and ceramide isolated rat liver mitochondria were treated with varying levels of sphingosine for 5 min and then exposed to C ceramide 29 g mL final for 10 min at room temperature. The mitochondria were sedimented and the supernatant assayed for adenylate kinase activity. Under these conditions only 1 of this ceramide inserts into mitochondria Siskind L. J. et al. 2006 CFCIN MOMAPRC Mitochondrion 6 3 118 125 Siskind L. J. et al. 2005 SFCIMTDGFTFBC J. Bioenerg. Biomembr. 37 227 236 . The initial rates of these reactions were plotted in after normalization for the amount of adenylate kinase activity released after hypotonic shock. Essentially total inhibition was observed by exposure to 0.3 0.6 g mL sphingosine depending on the batch of isolated mitochondria. In the concentration range of sphingosine examined up to 6 g mL sphingosine alone did not induce the release of adenylate kinase . Thus sphingosine could either destabilize ceramide channels or convert them to much smaller structures incapable of allowing the passage of proteins.

These results obtained with C ceramide differ somewhat from the results obtained with C ceramide. As shown in the use of C ceramide resulted in a biphasic relationship for the permeabilization of the mitochondrial outer membrane and release of adenylate kinase. Adenylate kinase activity was determined by measuring the initial rate of increase in the level of NADPH in the medium. Mitochondria were preincubated with the indicated amount of sphingosine for 5 min. This was followed by the addition of C ceramide to a final total concentration of 40 g mL. After a 10 min incubation the supernatant was assayed for adenylate kinase activity as described above. At low concentration sphingosine potentiated the permeabilization effect of ceramide whereas at higher concentrations it inhibited the formation of the ceramide channels as in the case of C ceramide. The actual initial rate of NADPH production was plotted and the rates observed with vehicle alone and after hypotonic shock are shown as horizontal lines in .

The potentiation might arise from metabolic conversion of sphingosine to ceramide by mitochondria. It has been reported that nearly half of the added sphingosine is converted to ceramide Siskind L. J. et al. 2005 SFCIMTDGFTFBC J. Bioenerg. Biomembr. 37 227 236 this is probably by the action of reverse ceramidase. Thus the ceramide produced from the sphingosine might combine with the added ceramide to reach a critical level resulting in channel formation. Excess sphingosine overwhelms the system resulting in the same inhibition observed with C ceramide.

This hypothesis was tested by determining whether sphingosine converted to ceramide would be capable of permeabilizing the MOM to adenylate kinase. Mitochondria were incubated with 2.4 g mL sphingosine for 5 min followed by addition of 10 mg of fatty acid depleted bovine serum albumin BSA to remove the unconverted sphingosine. The release of adenylate kinase is evident in S versus SB indicating that the removal of excess sphingosine allowed the ceramide formed to permeabilize the MOM. Significantly the combination of added ceramide and sphingosine converted to ceramide SBC . . . after BSA was used to remove excess sphingosine resulted in complete release of adenylate kinase. The long chain ceramide produced from sphingosine cannot be removed from the mitochondrial membranes by BSA addition Siskind L. J. et al. 2002 CCITPOTMOMTSP J. Biol. Chem. 277 26796 26803 . BSA alone did not result in any release of adenylate kinase. The addition of BSA to intact mitochondria or mitochondria treated with osmotic shock did not alter the level of adenylate kinase activity showing that BSA does not influence either adenylate kinase or the coupled enzyme assay.

An alternative hypothesis for the ability of low levels of sphingosine to enhance ceramide permeabilization of the MOM is a direct effect of low levels of sphingosine on ceramide channel stabilization. To test this hypothesis L threo sphingosine was used instead of the natural D erythro sphingosine. This optical isomer is not metabolized as readily as the natural isomer. Preincubation with the L threo sphingosine resulted in the same biphasic effect on ceramide permeabilization of the MOM . Thus the conversion to ceramide may not be necessary for the potentiating effect of sphingosine. Conversion was checked by removing excess L threo sphingosine with BSA to see if there was a permeabilization of the MOM as observed with the same treatment with the D isomer. In this case no penneabilization of the MOM to adenylate kinase was observed. This is consistent with the conclusion that the D but not the L isomer is converted to ceramide and that both the L and D isomers act to favor ceramide permeabilization of the MOM when present at low concentrations.

If the ability of low levels of sphingosine to enhance ceramide channel formation is a direct action on the channels this influence should also be observed on ceramide channels formed in liposomes lacking proteins. In these liposomes there is no possibility of metabolism or indirect effects on protein factors.

The ability of sphingosine to potentiate channel formation by long chain ceramide but not by short chain ceramide may lie in the fundamental structure of the channel. Molecular dynamics simulations Anishkin A. et al. 2006 SFTMAOTRANSMCC Biophys. J. 90 2414 2426 have provided evidence for dual curvature in ceramide monomers packed into the channel. Negative curvature in the plane of the membrane allows for formation of the annulus. Positive curvature normal to that plane allows for effective articulation between ceramides and the phospholipid bilayer. This articulation involves distortion of both ceramides and the phospholipids and would be ameliorated by the presence of lipids with positive curvature. Short chain ceramide already has the low hydrocarbon bulk that would aid in generating the positive curvature. Low concentrations of sphingosine may serve the same function. At the high concentrations sphingosine may intercalate into the ceramide channels resulting in their destabilization because sphingosine lacks the amide linkage believed to be critical to channel stability and has a net charge that would lead to electrostatic repulsion.

The observations of sphingosine induced suppression of ceramide permeabilization of mitochondrial and liposomal membranes could have a variety of mechanistic explanations. The higher levels of sphingosine might prevent the formation of ceramide channels from monomers e.g. by forming nonconducting complexes with these monomers or sphingosine might induce the disassembly of ceramide channels. Direct demonstration of sphingosine induced ceramide channel disassembly was achieved by experiments on channel formation in planar phospholipids membranes. Ceramide channel conductance increases in a stepwise fashion and these conductance increases have been demonstrated to represent the growth of a single channel in the membrane Siskind L. J. et al. 2003 EACOC CC Biophys. J. 85 1560 1575 as opposed to many small channels acting in parallel Kaulin Y. A. et al. 1998 COOICFBTASE IBLM Biophys. J. 74 2918 2925 . The increases in conductance in the left half of are thus increases in the size of a single channel. The typical ceramide channel grows in this way over a period of time until it reaches a fairly stable size. At this point sphingosine was added and the membrane conductance decreased over the next 15 20 min. The conductance declined until it reached the level of the unmodified membrane indicating that the ceramide channel was completely disassembled. Six minutes later the conductance increased once again but the nature of this conductance differed from that of a typical ceramide channel.

The signal observed during the earlier half of this experiment representing the flow of current through the membrane is characteristic of ceramide channels. These characteristics include the growth of the channel in a steady stepwise fashion and a relatively high signal noise. These characteristics continued through the phase of the experiment during which the conductance was decreasing with the channel shrinking steadily periodically punctuated with sharp decrements and with the current signal showing a low level of noise. In contrast to this the increase in conductance that followed showed no large increments and was highly noisy. The appearance of this particular type of noise is characteristic of sphingosine channels Siskind L. J. et al. 2005 SFCIMTDGFTFBC J. Bioenerg. Biomembr. 37 227 236 reflecting the fact that sphingosine forms multiple channels in the planar membrane and that these channels exist only transiently thus explaining the wide fluctuations in the current.

To test the interpretation of selectivity experiments were performed to distinguish between ceramide conductance and sphingosine conductance. Ceramide and sphingosine channels differ in their ion selectivities. Ceramide channels are weakly cation selective Siskind L. J. et al. 2003 EACOC CC Biophys. J. 85 1560 1575 and the magnitude of this selectivity decreases as the channel size conductance increases. Sphingosine channels have a preference for anions likely owing to the positive charge on the sphingosine molecule Siskind L. J. et al. 2005 SFCIMTDGFTFBC J. Bioenerg. Biomembr. 37 227 236 and thus they exhibit a positive reversal potential. Therefore by monitoring the reversal potential one can distinguish between conductance arising from ceramide channels and that due to sphingosine channels.

The timing of the change of reversal potential corresponded with the point at which the conductance of the membrane began to increase as indicated by the dashed lines in . This behavior is indicative of a changeover in the primary source of the membrane selectivity from a single ceramide channel to many sphingosine channels.

Other features of note in data of provide insight into the process of channel disassembly. The gradual loss of ceramide conductance is expected to reflect the shrinkage of the ceramide channel. As the channel becomes smaller the ion selectivity should increase as previously described Siskind L. J. et al. 2003 EACOF C CC Biophys. J. 85 1560 1575 . However as the ceramide conductance declined the reversal potential of the membrane stayed roughly constant and eventually moves toward zero. Therefore the presence of sphingosine in the membrane prevents the expected selectivity increase. One possibility is that sphingosine channels may have already begun to form in parallel with the ceramide channel and that the formation of these anion selective channels negates and eventually overcomes the increase in cation selectivity expected from the shrinking ceramide channel. Another possibility is that some of the sphingosine incorporates itself into the ceramide channels and thus not only destabilizes them but also changes their characteristic selectivity by introducing positive charge near the inner wall of the channel. These two possibilities are of course not mutually exclusive and could be occurring simultaneously. The dominance of one over the other may also depend on how much sphingosine was added.

These results demonstrate the ability of sphingosine to markedly reduce the ceramide induced permeability of the outer mitochondrial membrane to intermembrane space proteins. In whole mitochondria this could be due to a variety of mechanisms but in view of the results obtained in planar membranes simple disassembly of ceramide channels is the simplest explanation.

When experiments performed on mitochondria isolated from different animals are pooled the error bars are fairly large because there is variability of the response from one mitochondrial preparation to another. However the changes were always in the same direction and the reported effects are statistically significant. The relative response under different conditions also depended on the potency of the ceramide induced permeabilization again this varied from one batch of mitochondria to another.

The effects described here might be subject to a variety of criticisms. First of all one might be concerned that sphingosine might form micelles in the medium that would act as sinks for the ceramide resulting in the trapping of ceramide and thus inhibition of ceramide channel formation. However the published CMC for sphingosine is more than 30 g mL Deguchi H. et al. 2004 SABROTG J. Biol. Chem. 279 12036 12042 far greater than the amounts used. In addition by using radiolabeled sphingosine it was found that more than 80 of added sphingosine partitioned into mitochondria and thus the amount of sphingosine in the medium is far less than that indicated in the results presented herein. Thus the possibility of an artifact from sphingosine micelles is unrealistic. Another criticism is the amounts of sphingolipids used in the present Example as compared to levels found in cells. Again the use of radioisotopes shows that most of the ceramide added does not insert into mitochondria Siskind L. J. et al. 2006 CFCIMOMAPRC Mitochondrion 6 3 118 125 . The amount that does insert is within the physiological range approximately 4 pmoles C ceramide per nmole of phospholipids over 5 30 minutes from approximately 2.5 pmoles to approximately 5 pmoles C ceramide per nmole of phospholipids over 5 30 minutes the level measured early in apoptosis in mitochondria. The physiological levels of sphingosine in mitochondria during apoptosis are not well defined. Cellular levels increase to an equivalent of 1.5 3 g mL Cuvillier O. 2002 SIAS Biochim. Biophys. Acta. 1585 153 162 but the level in the mitochondrial outer membrane is unascertained. However the action of ceramidase would generate sphingosine and local levels may indeed be high enough to favor ceramide disassembly. Significantly after correcting for differences in insertion of ceramide and sphingosine the levels used herein are rather comparable as would be expected in the mitochondrial membrane when active turnover is occurring.

In sum the observed disassembly of ceramide channels in the presence of sphingosine demonstrates amplification of the negative regulation of ceramide channels through the action of ceramidase. This enzyme found in mitochondrial membranes hydrolyzes ceramide to produce sphingosine El Bawab S. et al. 2000 MCACOA HMC J. Biol. Chem. 275 21508 21513 Bionda C. et al. 2004 SCOCM MAM M AMA OM Biochem. J. 382 527 533 thus reducing the concentration of ceramide in the membrane and leading to channel shrinkage or disassembly. This disassembly process could be hastened by the presence of the reaction product sphingosine which amplifies the effect of the decreasing concentration of ceramide on the size of the ceramide channel by direct interaction with the channel to destabilize it. It depends on the local sphingosine level because if the level is too low there is potentiation rather than inhibition. As ceramidase continues to act the concentration of sphingosine relative to ceramide continues to increase thus accelerating the disassembly process. This putative self amplifying regulatory mechanism thus is an anti apoptotic regulatory step. The potentiating effect of sphingosine at lower concentrations is also physiologically important and is consistent with the reported pro apoptotic effect of sphingosine. The local concentration of sphingosine determines how it will act 

The present invention establishes that sphingosine is capable of directly disassembling ceramide channels thus proving the existence of this novel anti apoptotic regulatory step. The ability of sphingosine sphingosine 1 phosphate S 1 P and ceramide 1 phosphate the ability to form channels was investigated.

Of these only sphingosine produced real channels. S 1 P destabilized membranes and C 1 P was without reproducible effect. The channels formed by sphingosine are very different from those formed by ceramide Siskind L. J. et al. 2005 SFCIN MTDGFTFBC J. Bioenerg. Biomembr. 37 227 236 . They are much smaller and more dynamic with much shorter open times. They show a weak selectivity for anions which is independent of membrane conductance small ceramide channels favor cations but the selectivity drops to nil as the channel grows in size . From a histogram of conductance increments and decrements we calculated that the sizes of the sphingosine channels are less than 2 nm in diameter. Also unlike ceramide the conductance increments and decrements are virtually identical indicating that sphingosine channels do not enlarge in size like ceramide but form de novo and disappear in a stochastic manner. These results support the contention that the amide linkage in the ceramide molecule is essential for the formation of large stable channels. Sphingosine lacks that linkage. Furthermore unlike ceramide sphingosine forms channels in erythrocytes with a molecular weight cut off of 1 000 Siskind L. J. et al. 2005 SFCIMTDGFTFBC J. Bioenerg. Biomembr. 37 227 236 . Thus sphingosine also lacks the specificity for channel formation in the MOM. Interestingly the cut off is somewhat dependent on the mole percent of sphingosine indicating that the channel size varies slightly depending on the membrane concentration of sphingosine monomers. Sphingosine channels also behave very differently from ceramide channels in isolated mitochondria. Sphingosine partitions better into the membranes than does ceramide 85 insertion as compared to only 4 with ceramide but results in very little protein release. The small release of cytochrome c maximum of 15 can be accounted for by metabolism of sphingosine to ceramide because almost half of the radiolabeled sphingosine was converted to ceramide in 10 min. Considering the amount of ceramide formed one would have expected much more cytochrome c release to be detected. Thus it was hypothesized that sphingosine can inhibit ceramide channel formation Siskind L. J. et al. 2005 SFCIMTDGFTFBC J. Bioenerg. Biomembr. 37 227 236 .

For the outer membrane rich with VDAC channels the extra effect of forming sphingosine channels should not be a problem. Indeed if these channels were capable of facilitating the flux of ATP ADP through the outer membrane they may actually be anti apoptotic. It has been shown that a reduction in the outer membrane permeability to metabolites precedes the release of pro apoptotic proteins from mitochondria Vander Heiden M. G. et al. 2000 OMMPCRCRACS Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 97 4666 4671 . From a physiological standpoint having a product of ceramide metabolism be anti apoptotic is significant. By elevating the mitochondrial ceramidase activity cells would inhibit apoptosis in 3 ways reduce the steady state level of ceramide and thus the propensity of ceramide channel formation and increase the permeability of the outer membrane to metabolites with sphingosine and inhibition of ceramide channel formation through the action of sphingosine. Consistent with reports that sphingosine is pro apoptotic a large fraction of added radiolabeled sphingosine was found to be rapidly converted to ceramide Siskind L. J. et al. 2005 SFCIMTDGFTFBC J. Bioenerg. Biomembr. 37 227 236 .

Thus although sphingosine has the ability to form channels the channels were found to be too small to permit the passage of intermembrane space proteins and thus sphingosine itself does not induce apoptosis by permeabilizing the outer membrane to proteins Siskind L. J. et al. 2005 SFCIMTDGFTFBC J. Bioenerg. Biomembr. 37 227 236 . Experiments with whole cells indicate that sphingosine induces apoptosis by acting on specific proteins Suzuki E. et al. 2004 S DA A UCBOMMOIC Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 10141 14788 14793 . Nevertheless addition of sphingosine to mitochondria results in rapid conversion to ceramide Bionda C. et al. 2004 SCOCM MAM M AMA OM Biochem. J. 382 527 533 Siskind L. J. et al. 2005 SFCIMTDGFTFBC J. Bioenerg. Biomembr. 37 227 236 Woodcock J. 2006 SACSIA IUBMB Life 58 8 462 466 . Siskind et al. 2005 SFCIMTDGFTFBC J. Bioenerg. Biomembr. 37 227 236 also noted that the ability of ceramide generated from added sphingosine to cause the release of cytochrome c was less than when the same quantities of ceramide were introduced into the mitochondrial membranes by direct addition of ceramide to the medium no exogenous sphingosine . This observation supports the conclusions of the present invention that sphingosine destabilizes ceramide channels.

Both precursors and products of the ceramide metabolic pathway inhibit ceramide channel formation. Sphingosine is both precursor and product because ceramidase can both hydrolyse and synthesize ceramide. Unidentified conditions could bias the system in one direction or the other. Nevertheless it was found that low levels of sphingosine 1 2 M actually stimulated ceramide induced permeabilization of the mitochondrial outer membrane to proteins whereas higher levels 5 10 M strongly inhibited this channel formation. This was observed in both isolated mitochondria and in a liposome permeability assay. In addition a ceramide channel formed in a planar membrane is disassembled by sphingosine . Note the stepwise increase in conductance that is the formation of a single large ceramide channel. Following the addition of sphingosine the conductance declines as the channel disassembles. In this experiment the conductance went to background. A little later a noisy conductance was seen which is the formation of many sphingosine channels. The experiments were repeated in the presence of a salt gradient so that the selectivity of the conductance could be measured. As expected the initial ceramide conductance favored cations and this selectivity inverted to one favoring anions when the noisy sphingosine conductance formed.

Further observations made on isolated mitochondria provided additional support for the inhibition of sphingosine. For example the non physiological optical isomer of sphingosine L sphingosine gave the same results as D sphingosine. Also since some of the sphingosine is converted to ceramide one might expect that removal of the excess sphingosine would allow the ceramide to form channels and permeabilize the outer membrane to proteins. This was indeed the case when fatty acid depleted albumin was used to remove the unconverted sphingosine.

In the de novo synthesis pathway dihydroceramide is made first and then a desaturase uses oxygen and NADH to insert a trans double bond at the 4 5 position to generate ceramide. The dihydroceramide is generally regarded as inactive because it does not induce apoptosis nor does it form channels. However it was found that dihydroceramide inhibits ceramide channel formation at 10 the ceramide level . This was found both in liposomes as well as isolated mitochondria. Dihydroceramide may be incorporating into the ceramide assemblies on the membrane surface producing structures that fail to assemble into channels. Unlike sphingosine once the channels are formed dihydroceramide does not induce channel disassembly. Thus it is a kinetically limited phenomenon.

From a physiological standpoint the activation of the ceramide de novo synthesis pathway would produce a bolus of dihydroceramide that would then be converted to ceramide. The dihydroceramide may keep the ceramide from forming channels until a critical level of ceramide is achieved. Further conversion would both remove the inhibition and produce more ceramide for the self assembly of channels. This could cause an explosive increase in channel formation and release of pro apoptotic factors. This could be a contributing factor in the almost all or none response to apoptotic induction.

As indicated above most observations made on defined systems planar membranes and vesicles also resulted in corresponding effects in isolated mitochondria. However differences were observed with two agents. Both propranolol and dibucaine inhibit ceramide C and ceramide C induced permeabilization of mammalian MOM with an ICfor C ceramide of 410 and 230 M respectively doses similar to those used to inhibit Bax permeabilization . In yeast mitochondria propranolol and dibucaine inhibited ceramide C induced permeabilization but somewhat potentiated the effect of ceramide C. Similar results were obtained in liposome experiments. These results indicate that inhibition of channel formation by long chain ceramide involves a factor found in mammalian cells but not in the other systems.

The amount of ceramide that needs to be added to mitochondria to achieve permeabilization of the MOM to proteins is high compared to physiological levels. However it is not the absolute ceramide concentration in solution that is important but rather the concentration of ceramide in the membrane. In addition only a small percentage of the ceramide added to the solution actually inserts into the membrane. This issue was directly addressed by using radiolabeled ceramide and simultaneously measuring how much ceramide inserts into rat liver mitochondria and how much permeabilization is achieved in the MOM by measuring the accessibility of exogenously added cytochrome c. It was found that as little as 2 pmoles of ceramide inserted per nmole of phospholipid is sufficient to permeabilize the outer membrane to cytochrome c . Levels measured in mitochondria in the early stages of apoptosis are 4 pmoles per nmole. Thus the results are well within the physiological range. Note that after correcting for the membrane partitioning long and short chain ceramide have equal potency as expected from the model of the ceramide channel. Also note the lack of effect of dihydroceramide despite the fact that it inserts into mitochondrial membranes to the same degree as ceramide.

The Bcl 2 family of proteins is pivotal to the regulation of mitochondrial mediated apoptosis Antonsson B. 2004 MATBCL 2 FPIASP Mol. Cell Biochem. 256 141 155 Danial N. N. et al. 2004 CD CCP Cell 116 205 219 . This family of proteins includes anti apoptopic for example Bcl 2 and Bcl xL and pro apoptotic for example Bax Bad Bid and Bak members. The Bcl 2 family of proteins thus function either as bodyguards or assassins to positively or negatively control apoptosis Green D. R. et al. 2004 TPOMCD Science 305 626 629 Cory S. et al. 2003 TBCL 2 F RICSAO Oncogene. 22 8590 8607 Kirkin V. et al. 2004 TROBCL 2 FMIT Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1644 229 249 Packham G. et al. 2005 BAA BCL 2 FPAACCLL Immunology. 114 441 449 . Proteins in this family contain up to four sequence motifs termed Bcl 2 homology BH domains and are classically subdivided into three categories based on their function and structure. Proteins in the anti apoptotic family include Bcl 2 and Bcl xL and contain all four BH domains. There are multidomain proapoptotic proteins that contain BH domains 1 3 for example Bax Bak and Bok and BH3 domain only proapoptotic proteins that include Bim Bad and Bid. Anti apoptotic Bcl 2 members tend to block the release of proapoptotic proteins from the mitochondrial intermembrane space whereas proapoptotic members tend to promote it.

Ceramide is a Bcl 2 and Bcl xL sensitive apoptotic stimulus. Ceramide induced cytochrome c release is inhibited by preincubation with or overexpression of the anti death protein Bcl 2 Ghafourifar P. et al. 1999 CICC RFIM. IOMRS J. Biol. Chem. 274 6080 6084 Zhang J. et al. 1996 BCL 2 ITC MPOCD Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 93 5325 5328 Geley S. et al. 1997 CIA FOAHALLCTIIBBCL 2 BNBCRMA FEBS Lett. 400 15 18 or transfection of cells with BCl X Gottschalk A. et al. 1994 IOI IAIA MB CLAIPBBCL X BNBCL 2 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 91 7350 7354 Wiesner D. A. et al. 1997 A I IAIWEHI 231 CITSFOCFSAIBBBCL J. Biol. Chem. 272 9868 9876 .

The ability of the apoptotic Bcl 2 family members Bcl 2 and Bcl xL to inhibit ceramide channel formation is therefore investigated. For this purpose yeast are employed because they lack any known Bcl 2 family proteins Polcic P. et al. 2003 ROYTTREOPITBCL 2 F Biochem. J. 374 393 402 and the genes encoding these proteins can be added to yeast cells one at a time. Pro apoptotic Bcl 2 family members when expressed in yeast result in cell death which is suppressed by coexpression of Bcl xL Priault M. et al. 1999 ROC TDOBAX ABCL XL ITLAFIYC FEBS Lett. 443 225 228 Greenhalf W. et al. 1996 ROMAC TMAOBCL 2 IBAX IGAAMISC FEBS Lett. 380 169 175 Minn A. J. et al. 1999 BCL XL RABH DA IM EMBO J. 18 632 643 . In addition when Bax or Bcl xL are expressed in yeast they localize to mitochondria indicating that these proteins recognize yeast mitochondria.

The ability of the naturally occurring C ceramide to form channels in the mitochondrial outer membranes of isolated yeast mitochondria was assessed via the complex IV accessibility assay. This assay measures the bidirectional flux of cytochrome c across the mitochondrial outer membrane MOM by monitoring its oxidation by complex IV of the mitochondrial inner membrane electron transport chain. The initial rate of cytochrome c oxidation when expressed as a percent of the rate measured in mitochondria with damaged outer membranes is a good measure of the permeability of the MOM to proapoptotic proteins. This method has an advantage over simply looking for the release of cytochrome c because both channel prevention and reversal by a potential inhibitor can be evaluated.

Thus mitochondria are isolated from wild type yeast and yeast strains expressing either human Bcl 2 or Bcl xL according to previously published methods Lee A. et al. 1998 TROYVDAC GOTPOTMOM J. Membr. Biol. 161 173 181 . Isolated yeast mitochondria are incubated with the naturally occurring C ceramide and its ability to form channels is evaluated according to the complex IV accessibility assay Siskind L. J. et al. 2002 CCITPOTMOMTo SP J. Biol. Chem. 277 26796 26803 . This assay measures the CN sensitive oxidation of exogenously added reduced cytochrome c by cytochrome c oxidase of the inner membrane. It measures the permeability of the mitochondrial outer membrane MOM to cytochrome c. Only mitochondrial preparations with greater than 90 MOM intactness are utilized and the level of intactness is checked regularly during the experiment. Mitochondria are incubated with test agents e.g. C ceramide for a predetermined period of time e.g. 5 20 minutes reduced cytochrome c is added and the absorbance is monitored at 550 nm. C ceramide is added from a solution of isopropanol.

The results of such experiments indicate that C ceramide forms channels in the MOM of isolated wild type yeast mitochondria in a dose dependent manner . As the voltage dependent anion channel VDAC has been implicated in playing a role in mitochondrial mediated apoptosis we determined whether C ceramide could form channels in the MOMs of mitochondria isolated from VDAC1 knock out yeast. C ceramide forms channels to the same extent in mitochondria isolated from VDAC1 knock out yeast as it does in mitochondria isolated from wild type . Thus the ability of C ceramide to form protein permeable channels in isolated mitochondria is not dependent on the presence of proteins in the Bcl 2 family nor VDAC

The complex IV accessibility measures of the permeability of the MOM. The initial rate is expressed as a percentage of the rate of cytochrome c oxidation in mitochondria whose outer membranes are ruptured by hypotonic shock. A similar method the complex III accessibility assay Degli Esposti M. et al. 1982 KASOU CC RIB HM FEBS Lett. 146 101 105 as modified by Kluck R. M. et al. 1999 TP AP BID ABAX CA LPOTMOMTIEBC J. Cell. Biol. 147 809 822 may be employed to ensure that any observed changes in the rate of cytochrome c oxidation in the complex IV accessibility assay is actually due to changes in channel formation and not due to an altered activity of cytochrome c oxidase.

The cytochrome c accessibility assays differ from the measurement of cytochrome c release because they measure the permeability of the MOM at that point in time. The cytochrome c release assay detects the result of a permeabilization that may still exist may have passed or was merely due to short transient events. This explains why ceramide addition to isolated mitochondria results in clear permeabilization of MOM to cytochrome c whereas Bax and tBid can allow cytochrome c release without measurable increase in MOM permeability. Bax and iBid may only form transient channels.

Experiments were conducted in order to determine whether the anti apoptotic proteins Bcl 2 and Bcl xL influence ceramide channel formation in isolated yeast mitochondria. Purification of full length Bcl 2 is difficult because of its extremely insoluble nature. Thus full length human Bcl 2 was expressed in yeast cells. Mitochondria isolated from Bcl 2 expressing cells are resistant to C ceramide channel formation as compared to mitochondria isolated from empty vector control cells . In addition purified full length Bcl xL FL Bcl xL inhibits C ceramide channels in isolated wild type yeast mitochondria and in yeast mitochondria isolated from VDAC1 knock out cells. The MOM permeability was measured in isolated WT or VDAC1 KO yeast mitochondria incubated with the indicated amount of full length Bcl xL for 10 min followed by a 10 min incubation with 2 M C ceramide . FL Bcl xL can prevent ceramide channel formation when it is added to mitochondria before C16 ceramide . Thus when C16 ceramide is added to mitochondria and allowed to form channels prior to the addition of FL Bcl xL it can also induce the disassembly reversal of the ceramide channels. MOM permeability was measured in isolated WT yeast mitochondria incubated first with 20 M C16 ceramide for 10 min followed by a 10 min incubation with FL Bcl xL . Full length FL Bcl xL was purified by two different laboratories that utilized two different purification protocols and in both cases prevention and reversal of the C ceramide channels was observed. Thus inhibition of C ceramide channel formation by FL Bcl xL in MOMs does not depend on the presence of pro apoptotic Bcl 2 proteins the purification protocol or VDAC1. Prevention and reversal of ceramide channel formation by Bcl xL was however dependent on the full length version of the protein as deletion mutants lacking the C terminal hydrophobic transmembrane domain TM Bcl xL the flexible loop region loop Bcl xL both the transmembrane domain and the flexible loop region TM loop Bcl xL and N terminal amino acids 2 76 N76 Bcl xL are all unable to prevent or reverse the ceramide channels in the MOM of isolated yeast mitochondria . The Bcl xL deletion mutant N76 Bcl xL is known to be proapoptotic instead of anti apoptotic and actually activates C ceramide channel formation . As shown in isolated WT yeast mitochondria were incubated with the indicated treatments for 10 min each in the following order prevention indicates that the mitochondria were incubated first with 20 g of the specified protein followed by 20 M C ceramide whereas reversal indicates an incubation with C ceramide prior to the specified protein. MOM permeability was measured as described above. MOM permeability was measured as described above. The data thus show that when C ceramide is added to mitochondria and allowed to form channels prior to the addition of FL Bcl xL it can also induce the disassembly reversal of the ceramide channels. All Bcl xL deletion mutants were utilized at neutral as well as at acidic pH where they have been shown to more effectively insert into membranes. Regardless of pH none of the deletion mutants were capable of preventing or reversing the ceramide channels.

The results show that mitochondria isolated from Bcl 2 expressing yeast require a much higher dose of ceramide to achieve the same degree of MOM permeabilization. Mitochondria from empty vector transfected yeast are used as a transfection control. Western blots are performed to ensure that the mitochondria indeed contain Bcl 2 or Bcl xL. To determine if the decreased sensitivity of the yeast to ceramide is indeed due to an inhibition of ceramide channels and not due to a decreased insertion of ceramide C labeled ceramide is be used. Human Bad purchased from Chemicon Temecula Calif. and or monomeric Bax isolated according to the method of Suzuki A. et al. 1997 SOOCSAICICPT 11 IADS Exp. Cell Res. 233 41 47 is added to the Bcl 2 expressing mitochondria to evaluate whether the ceramide channel inhibition by Bcl 2 or Bcl xL can be reversed by binding up Bcl 2 with a proapoptotic Bcl 2 family member.

In order to gain insight into the mechanism by which Bcl 2 or Bcl xL might reduce ceramide induced MOM permeabilization experiments are performed to determine if these proteins decrease the number or size of the ceramide channels. The cut off for the channels formed in mitochondria will be measured as in Siskind et al. 2002 CCITPOTMOMTo SP J. Biol. Chem. 277 26796 26803 by incubating mitochondria with C16 ceramide pelleting the mitochondria and separating the proteins released on SDS PAGE. The cut off size for ceramide channels in rat liver mitochondria is 60 000. This is done in mitochondria isolated from yeast expressing Bcl 2 or Bcl xL as well as empty vector controls. Full length Bcl 2 and Bcl xL proteins are purified Thuduppathy G. R. et al. 2006 ETMIOTCDOBCL X L IGBAEM J. Molec. Biol. 359 1045 1058 Garcia C. et al. 2003 AA 3 ISICFBBCL 2 Biophys. J. 84 204A and tested for their effects on ceramide channel formation in isolated mitochondria.

Experiments show that purified full length Bcl xL can both prevent and reverse C ceramide channels in mitochondria from rat liver and yeast . Each batch of purified Bcl 2 or Bcl xL is characterized by SDS PAGE followed by Coomassie stain and western blot. Alkaline treatment of the mitochondria following their incubation with the recombinant proteins is performed to determine if they are actually inserting into the membrane or merely loosely associated with the MOM. Experiments are performed to determine if the recombinant proteins inhibit ceramide insertion into the mitochondrial membrane as opposed to acting by interfering with channel formation.

Experimental results indicate that Bcl 2 and Bcl xL inhibit the ceramide channels. Such inhibition may be direct or indirect. A direct effect would be mediated through a direct physical interaction between Bcl 2 and or Bcl xL and ceramide whether in the monomeric form or preassembled into channels. Bcl 2 and or Bcl xL could bind ceramide monomers and cause channel disassembly by mass action. Alternatively these proteins could interact only with preassembled ceramide channels. The data indicate that Bcl xL in isolated mitochondria interacts with ceramide monomers. When Bcl xL is added to the mitochondria before ceramide it is able to prevent ceramide channels from ever forming. In addition when ceramide is added to the mitochondria first and allowed to form channels prior to the addition of Bcl xL the protein can disassemble the preformed ceramide channels . Thus it may be concluded that Bcl xL interacts with ceramide in the monomeric form or stabilizes some non conducting assembly or mediates its effect by activating a mitochondrial ceramidase.

The anti apoptotic proteins Bcl 2 and Bcl xL have homologous BH Bcl 2 homology 1 BH2 BH3 and BH4 domains. The BH1 BH2 and BH4 domains have been shown to be essential for the anti apoptotic function. These proteins also have a transmembrane C terminal domain. The three dimensional structures show a 60 amino acid flexible loop domain between helices 1 and 2 that may be important. These attributes indicate that a specific region of Bcl 2 and or Bcl xL is responsible for their ability to inhibit ceramide channels. The transmembrane region of Bcl xL is found to be important for the inhibition of the ceramide channels. In addition a mutant version of Bcl xL delta N76 Bcl xL that is actually proapoptotic activates the ceramide channels rather then inhibiting them.

One of the pro survival functions of Bcl 2 and Bcl xL is the inhibition of the activities of the pro apoptotic members of the Bcl 2 family by binding to them. In fact the rheostat model for apoptosis proposes that cell death and survival are regulated by the balance between proapoptotic and antiapoptotic classes of Bcl 2 proteins Korsmeyer S. J. et al. 1993 BCL 2 BAX A RTRTA OPACD Semin. Cancer Biol. 4 327 332 . Cell death must be actively induced by both inhibition of the antiapoptotic function of Bcl 2 and Bcl xL and engaging the proapoptotic members Kuwana T. et al. 2002 BID BAX ALCTFSOITOMM Cell. 111 331 342 . Ceramide has many functions. In addition to form protein permeable channels ceramide is able to induce apoptosis in part by binding to Bcl 2 and or Bcl xL and preventing the binding of and or induce the dissociation of bound proapoptotic Bcl 2 family members. Thus ceramide interaction with Bcl 2 and or Bcl xL shifts the balance toward the proapoptotic Bcl 2 family members.

The phosphorylation state of Bcl 2 proteins appears to be important to their mode of action on ceramide channels in the phosphorylated form Bcl 2 may better inhibit ceramide channels. Alternatively the dephosphorylated form of Bcl 2 could actually promote ceramide channel formation. Likewise the phosphorylation status of Bad and Bax may be important to their effects on ceramide channels upon their dephosphorylation Bax and Bad could promote ceramide channel formation and or form hybrid channels with ceramide. Data indicate that mitochondria isolated from Bcl 2 expressing yeast are resistant to ceramide channel formation.

Evidence indicates that pro apoptotic Bcl 2 family members act in concert with ceramide. For example exogenously added ceramide potentiates the ability of Bax to initiate apoptosis Pastorino J. G. et al. 1999 FCOTSOTABBAX OTMPTP J. Biol. Chem. 274 31734 31739 . It has been reported that for some cell types and tissues Bax translocation from the cytosol to mitochondria occurs following ceramide production Kim H. J. et al. 2001 BAX DAIBCIHL 60 C FEBS Lett. 505 264 268 Treatment of MCF7 cells with TNF resulted in increased mitochondrial ceramide levels that were associated with Bax translocation to mitochondria Birbes H. et al. 2005 A MPOSIIIT IBAX TTM Biochem. J. 386 445 451 . Additionally the addition of C ceramide to isolated mitochondria stimulated Bax translocation to mitochondria and subsequent cytochrome c Smac release. Ceramide induced Bax conformational change was found to occur in isolated mitochondria fractions and not in mitochondrial protein lysates or cytosolic fractions Kashkar H. et al. 2005 ASIIFUV L IBAX CCATMM J. Biol. Chem. 280 21 20804 20813 . While ceramide can clearly induce cytochrome c release and apoptosis under Bax deficient conditions the presence of Bax often enhances ceramide induced apoptosis Von Haefen C. et al. 2002 CIMAAAVA BAX DPIHCC Oncogene 21 4009 4019 . Clearly Bax is not required for ceramide channel formation Siskind L. J. et al. 2000 The Lipids C And C Ceramide Form Large Stable Channels In Membranes Implications For Apoptosis J. Biol. Chem. 275 39640 39644 Siskind L. J. et al. 2002 Ceramide Channels Increase The Permeability Of The Mitochondrial Outer Membrane To Small Proteins J. Biol. Chem. 277 26796 26803 Siskind L. J. et al. 2003 Enlargement And Contracture Of C Ceramide Channels Biophys. J. 85 1560 157 as ceramide channels are observed in planar phospholipid membranes free of proteins and ceramide channels allow the release of intermembrane space proteins less than 60 kDa in size from isolated rat liver mitochondria reported to lack Bax Polster B. M. et al. 2001 BH3 DDPICT SMOMP J. Biol. Chem.276 41 37887 37894 . Results of the present invention indicate that ceramide forms large protein permeable channels in the outer membranes of mitochondria isolated from Bax Bak double knock out cells just as well as in mitochondria from wild type cells. However it is possible that in vivo Bax and ceramide may form hybrid channels. Alternatively Bax could promote the enlargement or stabilization of ceramide channels or vice versa or ceramide could promote the insertion of Bax into mitochondrial membranes.

The observations obtained with yeast mitochondria apply as well to mammalian mitochondria. When isolated rat liver mitochondria were incubated with FL Bcl xL for 10 min prior to incubation with C ceramide for 10 min almost complete prevention of C ceramide channel formation was observed at levels of FL Bcl xL as low as 1.5 g . Disassembly of preformed C ceramide channels by FL Bcl xL was observed at even lower levels of FL Bcl xL 5 g or less . Unlike the simple dose dependent channel prevention that was observed when the mitochondria were exposed to FL Bcl xL prior to C ceramide a biphasic effect was observed when the ceramide was allowed to form channels in the MOMs of the isolated mitochondria prior to the addition of Bcl xL . Bcl xL deletion mutants in isolated rat liver mitochondria were unable to prevent or reverse C ceramide channel formation. As was the case in isolated yeast mitochondria the proapoptotic N76 Bcl xL activated rather than inhibited the C ceramide channels in isolated rat liver mitochondria. The inhibition of the C ceramide channels by the FL Bcl xL in rat liver mitochondria correlates with the inhibition observed in yeast mitochondria and thus does not involve proapoptotic proteins in the Bcl 2 family.

Ced 9 the Bcl 2 homologue also inhibits ceramide channel formation . The purified Ced 9 protein requires the presence of thiol reducing agents DTT for it to remain in its monomer form. However DTT interferes with the complex IV accessibility assay. An assay was therefore utilized which measures the release of adenylate kinase from the mitochondrial intermembrane space. As was the case with Bcl 2 Ced 9 inhibited C ceramide channel formation in a dose dependent manner in rat liver mitochondria .

The observation that anti apoptotic Bcl 2 family proteins inhibit ceramide channel formation in isolated yeast and rat liver mitochondria correlates with previous reports showing inhibition of ceramide induced apoptosis in whole cells by these proteins. Thus the results directly tie ceramide induced mitochondrial mediated apoptosis with the Bcl 2 family of proteins known to regulate these events. To address whether the antiapoptotic proteins act directly on ceramide channels or work by an indirect action their affects on ceramide channels in solvent free planar phospholipid membranes was tested. This is a defined system free of other proteins. When C ceramide is added to the aqueous solution bathing one side of a planar phospholipid membrane it results in discontinuous increases in conductance under voltage clamp conditions the defining characteristic of channel formation in membranes. These conductance increments are the enlargement of one ceramide channel rather than the formation of multiple ceramide channels in parallel Siskind L. J. et al. 2003 EACOC CC Biophys. J. 85 1560 1575 . Once the C ceramide channel enlarged in size and reached a steady conductance level incubation was continued for at least 5 minutes to ensure that the channel was indeed stable. Bcl xL was then added while stirring to the opposite side of the membrane from the side to which C ceramide was added. This resulted in a dramatic decrease in the ceramide conductance to baseline . Vehicle controls resulted in no conductance change. Addition of the N76 Bcl xL to the planar phospholipids membrane containing C ceramide channel did not result in channel inhibition showing that inhibition of C ceramide channels is specific to the version of the protein that is anti apoptotic. Similar experiments were performed with Ced 9 which also inhibited the C ceramide channels. Unlike the FL Bcl xL Ced 9 did not decrease the conductance completely to baseline. The very small remaining conductance is most likely due to the Ced 9 which has been shown to increase the permeability of liposomes and may form small channels by itself.

The inhibition of the C ceramide channels by FL Bcl xL and Ced 9 in planar phospholipid membranes shows for the first time a direct interaction between ceramide channels and anti apoptotic Bcl 2 proteins. The results have profound implications on multiple levels. First channel inhibitors are relied on as a means of identifying a particular permeability change as being due to a particular channel. The fact the FL Bcl xL and Ced 9 inhibit C ceramide channels in planar phospholipid membranes proves unequivocally that the increase in permeability of the MOM and protein release from isolated mitochondria that is observed with C ceramide is in fact due to its ability to form channels. The level of mitochondrial ceramide that is achieved during the induction phase of apoptosis Birbes H. et al. 2005 A MPOSIIIT IBAX TTM Biochem. J. 386 445 451 Garcia Ruiz et al. 1997 DEOCOTMETCLTGOROS. ROMG J. Biol. Chem. 272 11369 11377 Rodriguez Lafrasse C. et al. 2002 IECUIOSMMIR IMIAACK Int. J. Cancer 101 589 598 is consistent with the level of ceramide required for the formation of protein permeable channels Siskind L. J. et al. 2006 CFCIMOMAPRC Mitochondrion 6 3 118 125 Epub 2006 Mar. 29 . Secondly the results are important because they show that the ability of ceramide to induce mitochondrial mediated apoptosis is at least in part due to its ability to form channels. Thirdly the inhibition of ceramide channels by anti apoptotic Bcl 2 proteins at least partially explains their ability to inhibit ceramide induced apoptosis in whole cell systems. Fourthly the inhibition of ceramide channels by anti apoptotic Bcl 2 proteins directly ties ceramide induced mitochondrial mediated apoptosis in with the Bcl 2 system of regulation of these events. Additionally inhibition of ceramide channels by anti apoptotic Bcl 2 proteins make these channels good candidates for the pathway through which proapoptotic proteins are released from mitochondria during the induction phase of apoptosis.

As discussed above ceramide addition to whole cells or isolated mitochondria results in the release of proapoptotic proteins from mitochondria and this release is inhibited by the anti apoptotic proteins Bcl 2 and Bcl xL. However the mechanism for the ceramide induced release of proapoptotic proteins from mitochondria is still highly debated despite the fact that ceramide channels are indeed large enough to allow for the passage of proapoptotic proteins and the levels of mitochondrial ceramide required for channel formation matches the level achieved during the induction phase of apoptosis Siskind L. J. et al. 2006 CFCIMOMAPRC Mitochondrion 6 3 118 125 . Nevertheless the general consensus is that the protein efflux pathway is generated by the pro apoptotic Bcl 2 proteins Bax Bak and Bid. Thus ceramide permeabilize the mitochondria outer membrane by favoring the formation of a channel by Bcl 2 proapoptotic proteins

All publications and patents mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference in its entirety.

While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications and this application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention following in general the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains and as may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth.

