---

title: Extensible framework for client-based active network measurement
abstract: A method, system, medium and a lightweight computing framework are provided for active network measurements. A communication network having links that connect a collection of client devices that utilize the computing framework to generate probe streams, receive network data associated with one or more network measurements, and to analyze the network data. The probe streams are generated based on a configuration file. The configuration file implements one or more network measurements and is defined in a scripting language. Additionally, the probe streams collect network data, and the computing framework utilizes the network data to determine link properties along one or more communication paths and to generate additional probe streams when specified conditions are satisfied.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08713138&OS=08713138&RS=08713138
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08713138
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060815
---
Conventionally network measurement tools are utilized by network operators to check compliance with service level agreements and users to measure network performance. The network measurement tools provide information regarding connectivity routing link capacities available bandwidth and bottlenecks. Typically different tools are required to gather the information utilized by the network operators to ensure compliance.

For instance a network operator may utilize a first tool to measure capacity and a second tool to measure delay. Additionally a third tool may be utilized to measure bandwidth. In operation multiple tools create numerous inefficiencies in code portability code maintenance and implementation. Each tool reimplements basic functionality such as packet scheduling timestamping and receiving. Reimplementation of basic functionality creates implementation inefficiencies because each of the three tools executes similar lower level procedures. In a similar vein code maintenance is inefficient because each tool is updated separately which requires duplicative update procedures. Moreover portability is inefficient because each tool is tied to the underlying computing platform or operating system. Additionally the network operator would be burdened to understand three interfaces associated with the three different tools.

The present invention is defined by the claims below. Embodiments of the present invention solve at least the above problems by providing a system method computer readable media and computing framework for among other things performing distributed active network measurement. The present invention has several practical applications in the technical arts including dynamically configuring and extending active network measurements debugging active network measurements and providing link and path properties.

In a first aspect a computer implemented method for active network measurement is provided. The method includes receiving a configuration file associated with one or more active network measurements. The configuration file is parsed to extract specified commands. In turn a collection of probe streams are generated and injected into a communication network. The probe streams provide network data that is utilized to estimate path properties such as capacity bandwidth round trip time etc.

In a second aspect a computer system for active network measurements is provided. The system includes a collection of client devices having service and control components for active network measurement. Additionally the system includes a script interface that provides commands associated with one or more active network measurement procedures. Network data corresponding to the one or more active network measurements is collected along one or more communication links associated with one or more of the collection of client devices connected to a communication network.

In a third aspect one or more client devices execute a lightweight computing framework for extensible active network measurements. The computing framework includes sending receiving analysis and output components. The sending component generates probe streams based on commands included in an active network measurement configuration file. The receiving component receives network data corresponding to the probe streams and the analysis component utilizes the network data to estimate link properties. The output component provides the network data or path properties to an appropriate output interface that may be specified in the active network measurement configuration file.

Embodiments of the present invention provide computer readable media computing frameworks computer systems and methods for performing active network measurement utilizing a one invocation per technique paradigm. Specifically an extensible computing framework for active network measurements is utilized to generate probe streams that collect network data. The extensible computing framework provides implementations for basic primitives and a script interface where scripts are utilized to invoke the basic primitives. The extensible computing framework facilitates updates and new configurations for active network measurement that are dynamically ported to clients on a communication network. Accordingly end users or network operators have a simple lightweight and extensible computing framework to efficiently set up and operate a wide panoply of active probing techniques for measuring network data.

Throughout the description of the present invention several acronyms and shorthand notations are used to aid the understanding of certain concepts pertaining to the associated system and services. These acronyms and shorthand notations are solely intended for the purpose of providing an easy methodology of communicating the ideas expressed herein and are in no way meant to limit the scope of the present invention. The following is a list of these acronyms 

As utilized herein a component refers to any combination of hardware and software. Moreover computer readable media include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and nonremovable media and contemplates media readable by a database a switch and various other network devices. Network switches routers and related components are conventional in nature as are means of communicating with the same. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise computer storage media and communications media.

Computer storage media or machine readable media include media implemented in any method or technology for storing information. Examples of stored information include computer useable instructions data structures program modules and other data representations. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile discs DVD holographic media or other optical disc storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage and other magnetic storage devices. These memory components can store data momentarily temporarily or permanently.

Communications media typically store computer useable instructions including data structures and program modules in a modulated data signal. The term modulated data signal refers to a propagated signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed to encode information in the signal. An exemplary modulated data signal includes a carrier wave or other transport mechanism. Communications media include any information delivery media. By way of example but not limitation communications media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic infrared radio microwave spread spectrum and other wireless media technologies. Combinations of the above are included within the scope of communication media.

In an embodiment a distributed operating environment may utilize an extensible computing framework for active network measurement to collect network data associated with client devices connected in a communication network. The communication network provides access among the client devices and enables wired or wireless communications. is a network diagram illustrating a distributed operating environment according to an embodiment of the present invention. One of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that operating environment has been simplified to illustrate key features of embodiments of the present invention.

In the distributed operating environment includes a communication network a base station network switches and server device and a collection of client devices and configured with an extensible computing framework . The client devices include a mobile phone a laptop personal digital assistants and a workstation and a tablet personal computer . The server device provides access to files or web pages. The network switches and route communications across the communication network . The base station provides the mobile phone access to the communication network . In an embodiment of the invention the communication network is a virtual private network VPN that provides tunnels for client devices and .

The extensible computing framework as illustrated in client device includes a service component and a control component . The extensible computing framework enables active network measurements on the communication network . Network data associated with the communication network is provided to each client device and . The network data is then analyzed by the client device to determine path properties such as bandwidth capacity delay connectivity bottlenecks etc. In an embodiment of the invention analysis of the network data is distributed across the collection of client devices and .

The service component may operate in a library or daemon mode. The extensible computing framework listens for requests on a specified port of the client device and may operate in library or daemon mode. In an embodiment a request may include a number of concurrent requests and a maximum number of request after which the service component stops. In library mode the number of concurrent requests and the maximum number of request are set to one. When operating in library mode commands are scrutinized to determine which portion of the library to invoke. Additionally the commands may require access to analysis components that perform calculations on the network data or output components that format the network data or result of the calculations for presentation. In daemon mode the number of concurrent requests or maximum number of requests is set to infinity. When operating in daemon mode the client device may accepts multiple requests and schedule the requests for execution. The daemon may operate in single or multiple daemon mode. In single daemon mode the number of concurrent request is set to one and the number of request is set to infinity. In multiple daemon mode the number of concurrent request is to infinity and the number of request is also set to infinity. Unlike library mode which is local to client the device daemon mode enables remote access among other client devices and . Remote invocation allows analysis of the network data to be distributed across the client devices or . Accordingly analysis of the network data may occur on any client device remote from the client device that outputs or initiates the active network measurement. Remote invocation introduces security issues that may be handled via an access control component included in the service component.

The control component receives a configuration file that defines one or more active network measurements. The control component parses the configuration file to extract commands and communicates the commands to service component to invoke the appropriate objects for implementing the active network measurements. The control component is able to communicate with service components and other service components on the client devices or .

The foregoing distributed operating environment is illustrative. Furthermore the skilled artisan understands that embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in many other operating environments.

In another embodiment of the present invention the extensible computing framework for active network measurements includes sender analyzer receiver and output components. These components implement the basic primitives utilized by the active network measurements. The sender component may be utilized to generate and send an appropriate number of probe streams. The analyzer component performs calculations on the network data collected by the probe streams and received by the receiver component. In certain embodiments the network data may include information on delay and loss. The output component formats and presents the results of the calculation or the network data if necessary. In some embodiments the output component triggers the sender component to generate and send additional probe streams. In an embodiment if the communication network is not congested or the paths are not bottlenecked additional packets are generated.

The sender component generates and injects the probes streams into the communication network. The sender component may include a timestamping and event scheduling components that control the frequency at which the probe streams are injected into the communication network. In an embodiment the sender component may operate in one of three modes associated with the active network measurements. In a first mode or batch mode a collection of probe streams is generated and sent as a batch to the communication network. In a second mode or continuous mode probe streams are continuously sent to the communication network until an interrupt command is received. In a third mode or feedback mode probes streams are generated and additional probe streams are generated based on results of analyzing the network data received from previously generated probe streams.

The receiver component receives the network data collected by the probe streams. The receiver component determines whether the network data should be sent to the output component or the analyzer component . If the active network measurement requires further calculations the network data is sent to the analyzer component . Otherwise the network data is sent to the output component .

The output component may receive network data from the receiver component or results from the analyzer component . The output component formats the network data or results and stores the network data or result in a file or displays the network data or results on a client device.

The analyzer component receives the network data and performs calculations associated with the active network measurements to generate results. The results may provide communication path properties such as round trip time RTT bandwidth capacity etc. Accordingly the extensible computing framework provides the primitives for performing active network measurements on a communication network.

In an embodiment the probe streams generated by the extensible computing framework are packets that include various fields. In another embodiment a random number generator is utilized to specify information associated with one or more fields of the packet. The packet may include fields associated with IP TCP UDP ICMP etc. For instance the packets may include time to live TTL or type of service TOS fields that are utilized when collecting network data. After a packet is appropriately configured the extensible computing framework injects one or more packets onto the communication network.

In an embodiment of the invention the configured probe streams are injected on the communication network to collect network data that is returned to one or more client devices for analysis.

In an embodiment the probe streams are generated based on an active network measurement executing on one or more client devices. The active network measurements may be dynamically configured by one or more configuration files. The configuration files include commands that invoke basic primitives provided by the extensible computing framework. The commands include control service and probe stream configuration commands. In certain embodiments the configuration files are parsed to extract the commands associated with generating probe streams and analyzing network data provided by the probe streams. illustrate an exemplary set of commands utilized by the extensible computing framework.

In an embodiment of the present invention a scripting interface may be utilized for invoking basic measurement primitives. The scripts may include instruction to send probe stream receive network data from the probe streams and to analyze the network data. The analysis of the network data may be platform independent and remotely provided. The analysis may be ported via helper files or may be executed on remote client devices. In an embodiment application or user commands may be utilized when performing analysis on the network data.

In an embodiment of the present invention active network measurements analyze network data provided by probe streams injected into a communication network. The probe streams provide network data that includes observed delays and losses. The extensible computing framework integrates procedures associated with various active network measurements and provides a simple framework to execute and dynamically alter the active network measurements. Moreover the extensible computing framework is light weight and may be executed on a client device to determine among other things connection speed.

In summary an extensible computing framework simplifies implementation maintenance porting and debugging of active measurement techniques. The inherent modularization associated with the extensible computing framework maximizes code reuse simplifies portability and provides immediate access to updated active network measurements. The extensible computing framework provides basic primitives associated with active network measurement and a flexible environment to invoke them. The scripts interface and scripts utilized to describe active measurements provide access to a diverse and dynamic collective of active network measurement that become available through the daemon or library associated with the computing framework.

Many different arrangements of the various components depicted as well as components not shown are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Embodiments of the present invention have been described with the intent to be illustrative rather than restrictive. Alternative embodiments will become apparent to those skilled in the art that do not depart from its scope. A skilled artisan may develop alternative means of implementing the aforementioned improvements without departing from the scope of the present invention.

It will be understood that certain features and subcombinations are of utility and may be employed without reference to other features and subcombinations and are contemplated within the scope of the claims. Not all steps listed in the various figures need be carried out in the specific order described.

