---

title: Restoration of Fizeau FTS spectral data using low and/or zero spatial resolution Michelson FTS data
abstract: A Fourier Transform Spectrometer (“FTS”) system includes a Fizeau FTS having a plurality of sub-collecting elements, adjacent ones of which are separated by a gap distance, and at least one of which has an adjustable optical path. The FTS system further includes a Michelson FTS having an adjustable optical path. The FTS system further includes one or more processors configured to select spectral data collected by the Fizeau FTS corresponding to spatial frequencies for which the Fizeau FTS has a modulation transfer function (“MTF”) value above a first threshold level, to select spectral data collected by the Michelson FTS corresponding to spatial frequencies for which the Michelson FTS has a MTF value above a second threshold level, and to combine the selected spectral data from the Fizeau FTS with the selected spectral data from the Michelson FTS.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07436518&OS=07436518&RS=07436518
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 07436518
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061018
---
The present application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 729 748 entitled RESTORATION OF FIZEAU FTS SPECTRAL DATA USING LOW SPATIAL RESOLUTION MICHELSON FTS DATA filed on Oct. 25 2005 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The present invention generally relates to Fourier transform spectroscopy and more particularly relates to the restoration of low spatial frequency Fizeau Fourier Transform Spectrometer spectral data.

When extracting spectral information from a radiation source Fourier transform spectroscopy is often used. Currently Fourier transform spectrometers only provide limited ranges of spatial frequencies in which their response i.e. their ability to collect spectral data is acceptable. For example Fizeau Fourier transform spectrometers tend to exhibit poor responses in low and zero spatial frequencies. Various approaches to restoring the spectral data missing from the spatial frequencies in which a Fizeau Fourier transform spectrometer has a poor response include estimation based upon prior knowledge of the scene being imaged or computationally intensive approximation using known image processing techniques. These approaches provide at best only approximations of the missing data.

Accordingly there is a need for a method to restore the spectral data corresponding spatial frequencies in which a Fizeau Fourier transform spectrometer has a poor response. The present invention satisfies this need and provides other advantages as well.

In accordance with the present invention low and zero spatial frequency spectral data collected by a Michelson Fourier transform spectrometer FTS is combined with the higher spatial frequency spectral data collected by a Fizeau FTS. Prior to combining the spectral data from each FTS is normalized with reference to the modulation transfer function MTF of each FTS to ensure a good match between the dynamic ranges of both spectral data sets.

According to one embodiment of the present invention a FTS system includes a Fizeau FTS having a plurality of sub collecting elements. Adjacent ones of the plurality of sub collecting elements are separated by a gap distance and at least one of the plurality of sub collecting elements has an adjustable optical path. The FTS system further includes a Michelson FTS with a collecting element having an adjustable optical path. The FTS system further includes one or more processors configured to perform the steps of selecting spectral data collected by the Fizeau FTS corresponding to a first plurality of spatial frequencies for which the Fizeau FTS has a modulation transfer function value above a first threshold level selecting spectral data collected by the Michelson FTS corresponding to a second plurality of spatial frequencies for which the Michelson FTS has a modulation transfer function value above a second threshold level and combining the selected spectral data collected by the Fizeau FTS with the selected spectral data collected by the Michelson FTS.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a method of restoring low spatial frequency spectral information to an image using a Fizeau FTS and a Michelson FTS includes the steps of selecting spectral data collected by the Fizeau FTS corresponding to a first plurality of spatial frequencies for which the Fizeau FTS has a modulation transfer function value above a first threshold level selecting spectral data collected by the Michelson FTS corresponding to a second plurality of spatial frequencies for which the Michelson FTS has a modulation transfer function value above a second threshold level and combining the selected spectral data collected by the Fizeau FTS with the selected spectral data collected by the Michelson FTS.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a machine readable medium carries one or more sequences of instructions for restoring low spatial frequency spectral information to an image using a Fizeau FTS and a Michelson FTS. Execution of the one or more sequences of instructions by one or more processors causes the one or more processors to perform the steps of selecting spectral data collected by the Fizeau FTS corresponding to a first plurality of spatial frequencies for which the Fizeau FTS has a modulation transfer function value above a first threshold level selecting spectral data collected by the Michelson FTS corresponding to a second plurality of spatial frequencies for which the Michelson FTS has a modulation transfer function value above a second threshold level and combining the selected spectral data collected by the Fizeau FTS with the selected spectral data collected by the Michelson FTS.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing summary of the invention and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a full understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one ordinarily skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances well known structures and techniques have not been shown in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

One approach to Fourier transform spectroscopy involves collecting spectral data with a Fizeau interferometer in which separate portions of a collected wavefront are interfered with each other to form interference patterns on an image plane. As the optical path length of one of the separate portions of the collected wavefront is changed a phase delay is introduced between the portions causing interference patterns to translate across the image plane. These interference patterns are collected and Fourier transformed to extract spectral fringe visibility data for all field points. Because the optical transfer function OTF of a Fizeau interferometer is given by the cross correlation of separate apertures however low and zero spatial frequency DC information is missing from the resultant Fourier transform.

While Fizeau FTS has been illustrated as including two sub collecting elements the scope of the present invention includes Fizeau FTS systems with any number of sub collecting elements greater than one. In embodiments in which an Fizeau FTS of the present invention includes more than two sub collecting elements the sub collecting elements may be associated into two or more groups of elements for the purpose of interfering the collected portions of an incident wavefront. The optical path length of each sub collecting element in a group will remain the same as the optical path length of every other sub collecting element in the group. Accordingly to generate interference patterns the optical path lengths of one or more of the groups will be varied with respect to another one of the groups.

For example illustrates an arrangement of sub collecting elements of a Fizeau FTS according to one aspect of the present invention. Fizeau FTS includes six sub collecting elements . Sub collecting elements and comprise one group and sub collecting elements and comprise a second group. Each of sub collecting elements and has an adjustable path length so that the group comprising these sub collecting elements can be interfered with the group comprising sub collecting elements and . Between adjacent sub collecting elements and is a gap distance . Gap distances between other adjacent sub collecting elements may be larger smaller or the same size as gap distance . According to one aspect of the present invention the largest gap distance or any of the gap distances if all are the same may be used to determine the size of the aperture of a Michelson FTS used to restore low spatial frequency spectral data to the Fizeau FTS as described in greater detail below with respect to .

Another technique for Fourier transform spectroscopy involves collecting spectral data with a Michelson interferometer in which the amplitude of a collected wavefront is divided into two wavefronts which are interfered to form an interference pattern. The optical path length of one of the wavefronts is varied to permit the collection of intensity information from a number of interference patterns formed by the two wavefronts. This intensity information is then Fourier transformed to extract spectral information from the wavefront. Because the entire collected wavefront is interfered with itself the resultant Fourier transform contains all the spatial frequencies contained in the OTF of the system which is given by the auto correlation of the pupil function of the collecting element s of the system . When used for Fourier transform spectroscopy a Michelson interferometer exhibits good response at low and zero spatial frequencies but poorer response in higher spatial frequencies resulting in a blurry image.

Turning to such a Michelson FTS is illustrated according to one aspect of the present invention. Michelson FTS includes a collecting element with an aperture whose cross correlation covers the DC and low spatial frequencies of interest i.e. those spatial frequencies missing from the data collected by the Fizeau FTS . According to one aspect aperture may be larger than the largest gap distance of Fizeau FTS . An incoming wavefront collected by collecting element is split by a beamsplitter into a first sub signal and a second sub signal . First sub signal is reflected by a fixed mirror back to beamsplitter . Meanwhile second sub signal is reflected by an adjustable mirror back to beamsplitter . Beamsplitter combines first sub signal and second sub signal which has now traveled a different optical path length than first sub signal to form an interference pattern at an image plane of Michelson FTS .

The present invention overcomes the deficiencies of both Michelson FTS systems and Fizeau FTS systems by providing an FTS system including both a Michelson FTS and a Fizeau FTS along with one or more processors configured to combine the spectral data collected by both the Michelson and Fizeau FTS systems. illustrates such a FTS system according to one embodiment of the present invention. FTS system includes a Fizeau FTS with a plurality of sub collecting elements as described in greater detail above with respect to . FTS system further includes a Michelson FTS with a collecting element having an aperture whose cross correlation covers the DC and low spatial frequencies of interest. For example the aperture may be larger than a largest one of the gap distances between adjacent sub collecting elements of Fizeau FTS as discussed in greater detail above with respect to . Both the Fizeau FTS and Michelson FTS output interference patterns to one or more processors such as processor . Processor is configured to combine the spectral data from Fizeau FTS and Michelson FTS in the following manner.

Processor generates a delta cube of Michelson interference patterns collected by the Michelson FTS . Such a delta cube is illustrated in . Each of the Michelson interference patterns in the Michelson delta cube includes a plurality of pixels such as pixels . Each Michelson interference pattern corresponds to a particular optical path length difference between the sub signals of the Michelson FTS . Pixels correspond to the same pixel location in each of the interference patterns thereby forming a delta column of corresponding pixels. illustrates delta column both graphically and in an x y plot format where the intensity of each pixel is graphed with respect to the optical path length to which the interference pattern containing the pixel corresponds.

Each delta column contained in the delta cube is Fourier transformed to produce corresponding lambda columns such as lambda column illustrated in . Lambda column contains the same number of data points as delta column which can be expressed either in an x y plot format where each data point represents the power at a particular spatial frequency or graphically as series of pixels corresponding to the pixels in delta column . By Fourier transforming each delta column in delta cube a lambda cube containing a corresponding number of lambda columns can be created. illustrates one such lambda cube containing the same number of lambda columns such as lambda column as delta columns in delta cube . Lambda cube therefore contains the same number of lambda images as delta images in delta cube . Each lambda image includes spectral data in a spatial frequency bin corresponding to a single wavelength or a small range of wavelengths of the wavefront collected by Michelson FTS .

In a similar fashion processor creates a Fizeau delta cube from interference patterns collected by Fizeau FTS . Each Fizeau interference pattern includes a plurality of pixels and corresponds to a particular optical path length difference between the sub collecting elements or groups of sub collecting elements of Fizeau FTS . The Fizeau delta cube similarly includes Fizeau delta columns which processor uses to create a Fizeau lambda cube in the same manner described above. The Fizeau lambda cube contains Fizeau lambda columns and Fizeau lambda images corresponding to the Fizeau delta columns and Fizeau interference patterns.

Next processor normalizes each lambda image in the Fizeau and Michelson lambda cubes by dividing the intensity of every pixel in each lambda image by the modulation transfer function MTF of the respective FTS system. The MTF of an FTS system expresses the magnitude of the OTF of that FTS system. schematically illustrates a single Fizeau lambda image being divided pixel by pixel by the MTF of Fizeau FTS . The result of this division is a normalized Fizeau lambda image in which regions of normalized Fizeau lambda image corresponding to a first plurality of spatial frequencies e.g. those corresponding to regions in which the MTF of Fizeau FTS are above a first threshold level have been normalized. Other regions such as region which correspond to spatial frequencies in which the MTF is below the first threshold level will have a larger noise component as they have been divided by a number closer to zero. For this reason in certain embodiments of the present invention the normalization step will include modifying the MTF of the FTS by adding a baseline component to avoid dividing the intensity of any pixel in a lambda image by either a very low number or by zero.

Similarly schematically illustrates a single Michelson lambda image being divided pixel by pixel by the MTF of Michelson FTS to produce a normalized Michelson lambda image . The result of this division is a normalized Michelson lambda image in which a region of normalized Michelson lambda image corresponding to a second plurality of spatial frequencies e.g. those corresponding to regions in which the MTF of Michelson FTS are above a second threshold level has been normalized. Other regions such as regions which correspond to spatial frequencies in which the MTF is below the second threshold level will have a larger noise component as they have been divided by a number closer to zero.

Next processor selects regions from normalized Fizeau lambda image and normalized Michelson lambda image to combine. In the selection of spectral data collected by Fizeau FTS is schematically illustrated by mask which selects region corresponding to the first plurality of spatial frequencies e.g. region for which the value of MTF of Fizeau FTS is above the first threshold level. This selection results in a cropped Fizeau lambda image in which the spectral data corresponding to spatial frequency regions for which the value of MTF is below the first threshold has been cropped out. Similarly in the selection of spectral data collected by Michelson FTS is schematically illustrated by mask which selects region corresponding to the second plurality of spatial frequencies e.g. for which the value of MTF of Michelson FTS is above the second threshold level. This selection results in a cropped Michelson lambda image in which the spectral data corresponding to spatial frequency regions for which the value of MTF is below the second threshold has likewise been cropped out. 

Finally processor combines the selected spectral data from Fizeau FTS and Michelson FTS . schematically illustrates this combination of cropped Fizeau lambda image and cropped Michelson lambda image to generate a reconstructed lambda image . Processor repeats the above steps for every lambda image in both lambda cubes to generate a single reconstructed lambda cube which can then be inverse Fourier transformed to generate a plurality of monochromatic images e.g. such as monochromatic image and or a corresponding panchromatic image i.e. made up of one or more of the monochromatic images .

According to one embodiment of the present invention the first threshold level and the second threshold level i.e. the threshold levels applied to the Fizeau and Michelson lambda images respectively may be the same level e.g. only spatial frequencies for which the MTF of either FTS system is greater than 0.5 are selected . According to other embodiments the first threshold level and the second threshold level may be different levels. Different threshold levels may be chosen to reduce or eliminate overlap between selected regions of Fizeau spectral data and Michelson spectral data to simplify the combination thereof. Should the first and second threshold levels be selected such that there is overlap in the regions of spatial frequencies between the Fizeau and Michelson spectral data this overlap may be handled in any one of a number of ways known to those of skill in the art. For example the spectral data in the overlapping regions may be averaged the spectral data corresponding to a pixel with a lower MTF may be discarded in favor of one with a higher MTF or the spectral data corresponding to a pixel with a lower intensity may be discarded in favor of one with a higher intensity etc.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the optical path length adjustments of the Fizeau FTS and the Michelson FTS are selected to ensure that each Fizeau lambda image in the Fizeau lambda cube corresponds to exactly one of the Michelson lambda images in the Michelson lambda cube thereby rendering the combination of spectral data from each lambda cube a simple matter. However the scope of the present invention is not limited to such an arrangement. Rather as will be apparent to one of skill in the art the present invention has application to embodiments in which the lambda images from the Fizeau and Michelson lambda cubes do not correspond in a simple 1 1 fashion e.g. because of a different number of optical path length adjustments between the two FTS systems different scan lengths etc. . In such an embodiment the lambda cubes may be synchronized before combination. This may be done in any one of a number of ways known to those of skill in the art. For example by taking weighted averages of two or more lambda images from one lambda cube a composite lambda image can be created that approximately corresponds to the spectral data contained in one or more lambda images from the other lambda cube. The scope of the present invention is not limited to this particular method of synchronizing lambda images however but rather includes any other method of synchronizing data sets known to those of skill in the art.

In step the Fizeau delta cube generated in step is Fourier transformed to generated a Fizeau lambda cube of Fizeau lambda images. Similarly in step the Michelson delta cube generated in step is Fourier transformed to generated a Michelson lambda cube of Michelson lambda images. Again as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art the scope of the present invention is not limited by this order of steps as steps and may be performed in any order or simultaneously.

In step each Fizeau lambda image in the Fizeau lambda cube generated in step is normalized by dividing each pixel thereof by the MTF of the Fizeau FTS. Similarly in step each Michelson lambda image in the Michelson lambda cube generated in step is normalized by dividing each pixel thereof by the MTF of the Michelson FTS. Again as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art the scope of the present invention is not limited by this order of steps as steps and may be performed in any order or simultaneously.

In step spectral data collected by the Fizeau FTS that corresponds to a first plurality of spatial frequencies for which the MTF of the Fizeau FTS is above a first threshold level is selected. Similarly in step spectral data collected by the Michelson FTS that corresponds to a second plurality of spatial frequencies for which the MTF of the Michelson FTS is above a second threshold level is selected. Again as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art the scope of the present invention is not limited by this order of steps as steps and may be performed in any order or simultaneously.

In step the Fizeau spectral data and the Michelson spectral data are synchronized if necessary. According to one embodiment in which each Fizeau lambda image in the Fizeau lambda cube corresponds to exactly one of the Michelson lambda images in the Michelson lambda cube no synchronization is necessary. Where the lambda images from each lambda cube do not correspond in a simple 1 1 fashion e.g. because of a different number of optical path length adjustments between the two FTS systems different scan lengths etc. then synchronization may be accomplished by taking the weighted average of adjacent lambda images in one cube to approximate a lambda image or a weighted average of multiple lambda images from the other lambda cube as described in greater detail above.

In step the spectral data from the Fizeau FTS and the Michelson FTS selected in steps and is combined. If there are regions of overlapping spatial frequencies in the spectral data from each FTS this overlap may be handled in any one of a number of ways known to those of skill in the art. For example the spectral data in the overlapping regions may be averaged the spectral data corresponding to a pixel with a lower MTF may be discarded in favor of one with a higher MTF or the spectral data corresponding to a pixel with a lower intensity may be discarded in favor of one with a higher intensity etc.

Computer system may be coupled via I O module to a display device not illustrated such as a cathode ray tube CRT or liquid crystal display LCD for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as for example a keyboard or a mouse may also be coupled to computer system via I O module for communicating information and command selections to processor .

According to one embodiment of the invention restoring low spatial frequency spectral information to an image using a Fizeau FTS and a Michelson FTS is performed by a computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in memory . Such instructions may be read into memory from another machine readable medium such as data storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the sequences of instructions contained in memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The term machine readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as data storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency and infrared data communications. Common forms of machine readable media include for example floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer or other machine can read. The term processor as used herein refers to any device that can execute process steps and may be comprised of one or more of hardware firmware or software.

While the present invention has been particularly described with reference to the various figures and embodiments it should be understood that these are for illustration purposes only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention. There may be many other ways to implement the invention. Many changes and modifications may be made to the invention by one having ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

