---

title: Method and apparatus for providing access to drawing information
abstract: A computer implemented system, method, and article of manufacture provide access to a drawing. A server computer has one or more server component applications. One or more drawing files are created by a first drawing application and stored on the server computer. A search server component application executes on the server computer and provides a query engine that allows queries of the one or more drawing files to locate data. A conversion server component application executes on the server computer and dynamically convert the drawing files into a drawing file format viewable by a client application executing on a client compute. The server component applications are further configured to provide the one or more drawing files that have been dynamically converted to the client computer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07689387&OS=07689387&RS=07689387
owner: Autodesk, Inc.
number: 07689387
owner_city: San Rafael
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060316
---
This application is a continuation application and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. Section 120 of the following co pending and commonly assigned U.S. utility patent application s which is are incorporated by reference herein 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 539 500 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING ACCESS TO DRAWING INFORMATION filed on Mar. 30 2000 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 047 180 on May 16 2006 by Brian P. Mathews and Ratnakar G. Dev which application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of commonly assigned U.S. Provisional application Ser. No. 60 132 057 entitled AUTOMATED SEARCHING AND DISTRIBUTION OF DESIGN DRAWING DATA TO INTERNET BROWSERS filed on Apr. 30 1999 by Brian Philip Mathews et. al.

This application is related to the following commonly assigned patent applications all of which applications are fully incorporated by reference herein 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 501 474 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 628 285 entitled INTELLIGENT DRAWING REDLINING AND COMMENTING FEATURE by Vincent Abeyta et. al. filed on Feb. 9 2000 and issued on Sep. 30 2003 and

U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 126 170 entitled CAD DRAWING COLLABORATION VIA WEB BASED SYSTEMS by Mark E. Sweat et. al. filed on Mar. 25 1999.

The present invention relates generally to transmission of data between computers and in particular to a method apparatus and article of manufacture for providing access to drawing information and for automated searching translation filtering change notification version management and distribution of design drawing data.

The use of Computer Aided Design CAD application programs is well known in the art. CAD application programs use specific formats to store drawing data. These formats include .DWG formatted drawings .DWF formatted drawings and other formats.

The drawing formats are typically unique to a given CAD application program. The drawing formats were designed to store drawing data on a single computer or a single host computer and are not easily transported via computer data links typically because of the size of drawing files and the uniqueness of the computer objects.

However with the advent of collaborative efforts using computer data links custom libraries of CAD objects and other computer based tools that allow multiple users to access drawings from geographically diverse sites the drawing formats have become cumbersome to the progress of remote computing. The now widespread use of the Internet Intranets and Local Area Networks LANs requires that the drawing formats be more compatible with network and web enabled systems.

Consequently there is a need in the art for improved techniques to access translate and manipulate CAD designed drawing data on a network. Further there is a need in the art for improved techniques for formatting the data such that the various parties that desire access to the CAD data can obtain the information desired. These problems may be better understood by describing drawing formats and prior art access techniques.

As described above CAD application programs use specific formats to store drawing data. These formats include .DWG formatted drawings .DWF formatted drawings .DXF formatted drawings and other formats.

The DWG format is a standard file format for saving vector graphics from within CAD drawing programs such as AutoCAD available from AutoDesk Inc.

The DWF drawing web format format is an industry internet standard recognized by IETF was developed by the assignee of the present invention AutoDesk Inc. and is an open file format for the transfer of drawings over networks including the internet. DWF is a highly compressed file format that is created from a DWG file. DWF files are easy to publish and view on the web. Further DWF is a vector graphics format for the transfer of drawings over intranets and the internet. DWF is a graphics format for vector data unlike GIF or JPEG which are graphics formats for raster data. DWF files can be generated by any application that supports DWF exporting. Further any DWF file can be viewed by any DWF viewer. DWF uses compression to speed up data transfer times. Further DWF removes the non visual components of a drawing like attributes properties and complex object behavior. In other words DWF is an electronic plot that is view only . DWF supports hyperlinking so that vectors or areas in a drawing can be made active .

Users of DWF have three benefits speed security and precision. DWF provides speed because of the high compression utilized so that files are smaller and faster to transmit and open than fill blown CAD files. Most DWFs are from 50 90 percent smaller than DWG files. DWF provides security because DWF files cannot be modified so they maintain the integrity of the original CAD DWG file which it is based on. In effect the DWF is a digital plot of the original DWG drawing. DWF provides precision because DWF files are vector based. When zooming in a DWF precision is maintained with other bitmap formats e.g. GIF or JPEG zooming results in fat pixels .

 DXF formatted drawings are drawings formatted in the document exchange format. Many CAD systems import and export the DXF format for graphics interchange.

Once the format has been converted by a drawing program user the DWF file may be published using a web server. For example in an information internet server IIS available from Microsoft is utilized in combination with NT server available from Microsoft to publish the DWF information. IIS is an internet file and application server that is included with the Microsoft Windows NT Server operating system. IIS can be used alone as a web server or in conjunction with compatible technologies to set up internet commerce to access and manipulate data from a variety of data sources and to build web applications that take advantage of server script and component code to deliver client server functionality. Other internet servers that the prior art utilizes include the Netscape Enterprise Server and the Apache server.

Server creates HTML documents that may be viewed by browsers . Many browsers are available in the prior art including Internet Explorer and Netscape Navigator. Thus the prior art provides the ability to view a DWF file and information about the DWF file using a drawing program to convert DWG files to DWF files and a server to create HTML pages for viewing over the internet using a browser .

To address the requirements described above one or more embodiments of the invention provide a method apparatus and article of manufacture for automating the finding and serving of CAD design data. One or more embodiments of the invention increase the level of access and automation possible with design data. One or more embodiments of the invention provide a server comprised of various components including an information extraction component a search component and a conversion component. The various components provide users with enhanced access to drawing and design data. One or more embodiments of the invention also provide programmable scriptable components that can query filter manipulate merge and translate design drawing data using a graphical user interface. Further network and web site administrators can use the present invention to dynamically index and publish design drawing data.

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration several embodiments of the present invention. It is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The present invention discloses a method apparatus and article of manufacture for providing access over a network to drawing information including the automating finding translation filtering merging manipulation and serving of CAD design data. The level of access and automation possible with design data is increased. A server comprises several components including an information extraction component a search component and a conversion component. The invention also provides programmable scriptable components that can query filter merge and translate design drawing data using a graphical user interface such as a Web browser interface. Further network and Web site administrators can use the present invention to dynamically index and publish design drawing data.

The present invention allows for the custom creation of Hyper Text Mark up Language HTML pages from CAD files automatically. Further the present invention automatically translates DWG and DXF files into a number of other formats e.g. DXF DWF JPEG Joint Photographic Experts Group BMP BitMaP DWG R9 14 a DWG format for one or more AutoCAD versions releases and other formats. The present invention also allows for searching of DWG DXF and DWF files to locate data based on drawing properties text layers blocks attributes or other search parameters supplied by a user.

The present invention is compatible with popular web browsers e.g. Netscape Navigator and Internet Explorer. Further the present invention interfaces with Microsoft Active Server Pages ASP and Common Gateway Interface CGI scripts. These compatibility and interface capabilities of the present invention allow the present invention to create powerful data driven networks and web sites that index query translate filter manipulate and reference DWG data for a variety of uses including product catalogs detail managers standards libraries and other extranet intranet Internet applications. Further the present invention allows designers to create a self service network such as an FTP file transfer protocol or web site that allow others to download drawings in whatever format is desired which eliminates the need for designers to perform conversion and publishing tasks.

The Internet connects client computers executing Web browsers to server computers executing Web servers . The Web browser is typically a program such as Netscape s Navigator or Microsoft s Internet Explorer. The Web server is typically a program such as IBM s HyperText Transport Protocol HTTP Server or Microsoft s Internet Information Server. In one or more embodiments the servers also interface and or manage a database .

Generally components all comprise logic and or data that is embodied in or retrievable from device medium signal or carrier e.g. a data storage device a data communications device a remote computer or device coupled to the computer via across a network or via another data communications device etc. Moreover this logic and or data when read executed and or interpreted results in the steps necessary to implement and or use the present invention being performed.

Thus embodiments of the invention may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof. The term article of manufacture or alternatively computer program product as used herein is intended to encompass logic and or data accessible from any computer readable device.

Those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this exemplary environment without departing from the scope of the present invention. For example those skilled in the art will recognize that any combination of the above components or any number of different components including different logic data different peripherals and different devices may be used to implement the present invention so long as similar functions are performed thereby. Specifically those skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention may be applied to any database associated database management system or peripheral device.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented in a variety of applications and environments. For example in one implementation a network for architects may be created with standard and best practice drawings that are searchable transformable etc. In a second implementation a building system web page may be created that offers a searchable catalog of components. In a third implementation a facilities management application may allow updates and indexes to a floor plan that is published on the internet. In a fourth implementation a project web site may allow easy access to drawing data via a quick preview e.g. a thumbnail view without the author manually publishing or converting the drawing or manually searching for information using a drawing viewer. The above four implementations are illustrative of the types of applications that may utilize embodiments of the invention. However embodiments of the invention may be utilized in any type of application system network etc.

Components of the invention may be used in any type of network or system such as an intranet or LAN. One or more embodiments implement server and server components to provide the user with various capabilities and options. illustrates the details of a server server components and the interaction between server components in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. As in the prior art drawings are created by a drawing program such as AutoCAD and stored in a database in DWG format. However in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention the drawing program does not need to convert the DWG file into another format e.g. DWF format .

Server application contains various components that enable various capabilities. The information extraction component provides information relating to the file such as the size of the file relevant dates the author etc. Such information may be displayed to the user using HTML on a web browser . However this information may also be utilized internally and not presented to a user.

Search component provides a query engine that allows complex property and tag based queries of the drawing files stored in database . Search component may also provide a live LAN local area network crawler that traverses the LAN to obtain information. In one or more embodiments the crawler is live and not batched so that the index stays current.

The conversion component enables the transformation from one drawing file format to another drawing file format e.g. DWG to DWF . Additionally the conversion component is cached for speed and scalability.

Server application and its components may interface with a variety of applications to provide the functionality of components to a variety of types of systems in a variety of applications. In one or more embodiments server application and its components interact with an ASP . ASP Active Server Page is a web page that contains programming code written in VB visual basic script Javascript or other scripting language. When IIS server encounters an ASP that is requested by browser IIS server executes the embedded program to create HTML pages . Essentially ASPs are utilized to dynamically generate HTML pages for viewing by browsers . ASPs are supported by IIS and NT server that enable the HTML generation. Thus when one of the server components is activated the programming code of an ASP may be executed to produce HTML pages . In one or more embodiments ASP provides for the conversion and storing of a drawing file into a selected format. For example when the user selects a desired file format hyperlink see description below the ASP interacts with the conversion server component to convert transform the drawing and the ASP provides for the user interface e.g. the prompts to open save and select the save location .

Components of the invention include translate ASP pages component e.g. convert server component DWG info ASP pages component e.g. info server component search ASP pages component e.g. search server component server manager cache manager file access manager extraction component drawing filters server application MMC Microsoft Management Console snap in and DWG DAL data access . The remaining components of may be utilized by embodiments of the invention.

Drawing applications e.g. AutoCAD create the various DWG files and store them as DWGs on a LAN . The files may be manipulated and displayed by ObjectDBX an object oriented database available from AutoDesk Inc. and image engine . DWG DAL data access interacts with ObjectDBX and image engine to provide access to the information in the DWG files. ObjectDBX is the software framework component that AutoCAD uses to access read and write to intelligent object databases. Developers can take advantage of a system that utilizes ObjectDBX by designing their application as two distributed components a core logic component .arx and a database extension component .dbx .

Server manager such as the AutoCAD Server Manager interacts with the drawing application . Cache manager provides for uploading and storing the DWG files in local cache. File access manager manages control of the files.

The IIS and ASP provide for the interaction between browser and the drawings . As described above ASPs are responsible for invoking the various components in accordance with a user s request. For example ASP may translate the drawing into a different format retrieve extract information or search the DWG files for certain information or attributes. Each of these actions from ASPs may utilize other system components e.g. server manager cache manager file access manager or extraction component .

Search component may utilize an index server that interacts with drawing filters to filter and retrieve information. For example each drawing filter may filter information from a different type of drawing format such that one drawing filter may be for DWG files another filter for DWF files and another filter for DXF files etc. Additionally management console may contain a server application MMC Microsoft Management Console snap in . A MMC snap in is a component responsible for performing management tasks. MMC serves as a host for snap in defined user interfaces but does not limit what the snap ins can do or how they communicate with the administered services.

Other configurations and or user interfaces are possible without departing from the scope of the present invention. For example any type of computer such as a mainframe minicomputer workstation or personal computer could be used with the present invention. In addition any software program network application or operating system having a user interface could benefit from the present invention.

The components described in may be utilized as an Application Programming Interface API for servers to present information to a user programmer or developer. In one implementation the components are utilized to produce web pages that are displayed on a browser . Such an interface may allow the real time search retrieval file format conversion and display of drawing information. illustrate the user interface used in accordance with one or more such embodiments.

Once the present invention completes the search the CAD files that contain the search terms are displayed in a condensed format for the user to view. As shown in eight documents matched the search term exterior. The first document is entitled cs83002.dwg and the second document is entitled cs83501.dwg.

The CAD files that contain the search term window are displayed in a condensed format for the user to view. As shown in four documents matched the search term window. The first document is entitled cs83002.dwg and the second document is entitled cs83004.dwg. As demonstrated in both thumbnail views and of the drawings are displayed. In accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention the user may select the image in the thumbnail views and and move the image within the display area and or perform other actions on the image while still in thumbnail view.

After performing the searches as described with respect to the user may decide that a specific drawing meets the criteria for more detailed viewing. To view the specific drawing in more detail the user merely selects or clicks on the desired drawing or hyperlink e.g. the tide of the document that appears underlined and in a different color . illustrates a typical web browser interface as displayed on monitor which displays an expanded view of drawing 1 cs83002.dwg which the user has selected.

The expanded view of the drawing retrieved by the search of the present invention allows the user to view in more detail the drawing s that the search queries yielded. The user can then decide whether the expanded drawing is the drawing desired or if other drawings are more suited to the user s needs. Further the user may decide to have a new drawing automatically created by filtering out certain layers of the existing drawing or have the existing drawing translated into another file format.

Once the detailed drawing is displayed as illustrated in the user may perform various operations. For example the display itself may be linked to an application program such as WHIP available from AutoDesk Inc. Such applications may provide the user with the ability to zoom filter the current view based on a layer display another view of the same model copy the image print the image save the image etc. Such options may be accessible by clicking the right mouse button while the cursor is over the image.

In the displayed layers are identified textually in box . By selecting any of the layers in box the image will be filtered and the selected layer will be displayed. Additional display regions may contain further information relating to the drawing e.g. the tide subject author keywords comments size creation date modification date last access date and file attributes .

Hyperlinks provide the ability to translate the format of the drawing to another format. The current format is indicated by boldfacing the type of the format. For example in the DWG format hyperlink is boldfaced to indicate that the current format being viewed is in DWG format. To transform the image the user merely needs to select a format that is hyperlinked. For example if the user desires to transform the drawing into DWF format the DWF hyperlink is selected. Alternatively the user may select the DXF format hyperlink the BMP format hyperlink or the WMF Windows MetaFile format hyperlink . After selecting the appropriate hyperlink the user may be prompted to either open the file or save the file. If the user elects to save the file one or more embodiments of the invention prompts the user to select a filename and location to store the file in the selected format.

In summary the present invention discloses a method apparatus and article of manufacture for providing access to drawings on a network. Drawings may be transformed from one format to another format automatically on the fly. One or more embodiments provide components that integrate with back office servers users with or without web browsers viewing applications e.g. WHIP VoloView or AutoCAD and drawing data e.g. DWG data .

The invention provides for automating the finding and serving of CAD design data and increases the level of access manipulation and automation possible with design data. The present invention also provides programmable scriptable components that can query filter search merge and translate design drawing data. Further administrators can use the present invention to dynamically index and publish design drawing data.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention not be limited by this detailed description.

