---

title: Spout assembly for an electronic faucet
abstract: An electronic faucet includes a spout assembly having a sensor configured to control the flow of water therethrough in response to the position of a spray head. Methods and apparatus for providing strain relief for electrical cables used in systems configured to provide fluid and, in particular, to methods and apparatus used to provide strain relief for electrical cables in electronic faucets.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07997301&OS=07997301&RS=07997301
owner: Masco Corporation of Indiana
number: 07997301
owner_city: Indianapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060104
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 755 581 filed Jan. 12 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 150 293 and further claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 662 107 filed Mar. 14 2005 the disclosures of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein.

This application also expressly incorporates by reference the disclosure of each of the following applications 1 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 755 582 filed Jan. 12 2004 titled CONTROL ARRANGEMENT FOR AN AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL FAUCET 2 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 757 316 filed Jan. 14 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 962 168 titled CAPACITIVE TOUCH ON OFF CONTROL FOR AN AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL FAUCET 3 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 912 254 filed Aug. 5 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 968 860 titled RESTRICTED FLOW HANDS FREE FAUCET 4 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 661 981 filed Mar. 14 2005 titled BATTERY BOX ASSEMBLY 5 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 661 982 filed Mar. 14 2005 titled POSITION SENSING DETECTOR ARRANGEMENT FOR CONTROLLING A FAUCET and 6 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 662 106 filed Mar. 14 2005 titled VALVE BODY ASSEMBLY WITH ELECTRONIC SWITCHING Related Applications . It is understood that certain features disclosed and or claimed in one or more of the Related Applications may be combined and or claimed in combination with certain features disclosed in this application.

This invention relates generally to a faucet and more particularly to an electronic faucet including a spout assembly having a sensor configured to control the flow of water therethrough. Further this invention relates to methods and apparatus used to provide strain relief for electrical cables used in systems for providing fluid and in particular to methods and apparatus used to provide strain relief for electrical cables in faucets.

Faucets having pull down or pull out spray heads or wands are well known. In these faucets the pull out spray heads are normally removably seated in the delivery spout. It is also known to provide a sensor assembly often including an infrared sensor within the delivery spout of the faucet. Such a sensor assembly is configured to detect the presence of a user s hands under the delivery spout and in response thereto cause an actuator driven valve to provide for a flow of water through the spout.

Strain relief for an electronic cable such as that within a faucet is configured to prevent unforeseen jerks on the cable from breaking wires or unplugging a connector associated with the electronic cable. Further the random movement of an electronic cable within a faucet may have unintended consequences on sensors used in the faucet in particular on capacitive sensors.

According to an illustrative embodiment of the present disclosure an electronic faucet includes a delivery spout and a sensor assembly supported adjacent the outlet of the delivery spout. The sensor assembly includes a bracket which is operably coupled to the delivery spout. More particularly the bracket provides mechanical support and electrical communication between the outer wall of the delivery spout and a printed circuit board. The sensor assembly further includes an infrared sensor and a sliding member having an embedded sensory element. A pull out spray head is releasably coupled to the outlet of the delivery spout.

In one illustrative embodiment a retainer is supported by the delivery spout and includes a plurality of arms having tabs which engage a groove formed within the spray head. The arms are resiliently biased radially inwardly to engage the groove. A collar or hose nut is operably coupled to the spray head and is configured to engage the sliding member. More particularly when the spray head is coupled to the outlet of the delivery spout the sliding member is moved upwardly by the collar. Similarly when the spray head is detached from the delivery spout the sliding member moves downwardly. The magnet embedded within the sliding member cooperates with a Hall effect sensor mounted on the circuit board illustratively to automatically activate the supply of water to the spray head upon removal of the spray head from the delivery spout. The spray head illustratively includes a plurality of tabs or ribs which are configured to rotationally engage the plurality of arms of the retainer. Cooperation between the ribs of the spray head and the arms of the retainer permit changes in water flow between an aerated stream and a spray upon rotation of a portion of the spray head.

In another illustrative embodiment an electronic faucet is provided. The electronic faucet includes a delivery spout having an outlet a pull out spray head removably coupled to the outlet of the delivery spout for movement between a coupled position and an uncoupled position and a sensor configured to detect the position of the spray head relative to the outlet of the delivery spout. A controller is operably coupled to the sensor and is configured to control water flow in response to the detected position of the sensor.

In a further illustrative embodiment a faucet is provided including a pull down spout. The faucet is configured such that pulling out the pull down spout activates water flow.

In a further illustrative embodiment an electronic faucet is provided. The electronic faucet includes a delivery spout having an outlet a pull out spray head having a plurality of ribs and a retainer removably coupling the spray head to the outlet of the delivery spout. The retainer includes a plurality of retaining members configured to rotationally engage the plurality of ribs of the spray head for controlling water flow therethrough.

In still another illustrative embodiment an electronic faucet assembly is provided. The electronic faucet assembly includes a spout assembly having an electronic sensor positioned proximate an upper portion of the spout assembly and an electrical cable running through an interior of the spout assembly from a lower portion to the upper portion. The electrical cable is operably coupled to the electronic sensor. A cable holder is positioned proximate to the lower portion of the spout assembly and is coupled to the spout assembly. The cable holder is configured to hold a first portion of the electrical cable to provide strain relief against an external force on a second portion of the electrical cable more distal from the spout assembly than the first portion and to generally compress the electrical cable within the interior of the spout assembly to minimize unintended movement of the electrical cable within the interior of the spout assembly.

In yet a further illustrative embodiment a cable holder for retaining an electrical cable relative to a housing is provided. The cable holder includes a lower portion configured to be coupled to the housing and an upper portion for engaging a portion of the electrical cable. The upper portion includes a plurality of legs which cooperate to provide the portion of the electrical cable with a serpentine path.

In still yet a further illustrative embodiment an electronic faucet assembly is provided. The electronic faucet assembly includes a delivery spout and a valve body spaced apart from the delivery spout. A spout control cable extends upwardly through the delivery spout. A spout strain relief member is positioned proximate to a base of the delivery spout and is operably coupled to the spout control cable. A valve control cable extends upwardly into the valve body. A valve strain relief member is operably coupled to the valve control cable.

Additional features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon consideration of the following detailed description of the illustrative embodiment exemplifying the best mode of carrying out the invention as presently perceived.

Referring initially to an illustrative electronic faucet system is shown fluidly coupled to a hot water source A and a cold water source B. Faucet system includes a spout assembly and a valve body assembly mounted to a sink deck . As explained in more detail herein and in one or more of the Related Applications including U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 661 982 filed Mar. 14 2005 titled POSITION SENSING DETECTOR ARRANGEMENT FOR CONTROLLING A FAUCET the disclosure of which has been previously expressly incorporated by reference herein spout assembly illustratively includes several electronic sensors. More particularly spout assembly illustratively includes a sensor assembly having an infrared sensor generally in an upper portion of spout assembly to detect the presence of an object such as a user s hands. Sensor assembly further illustratively includes a Hall effect sensor positioned in upper portion to detect when a pull out or pull down spray head is spaced apart from upper portion as shown in for example when a user is directing water flow to desired objects within a sink basin . Sensor assembly additionally illustratively includes a capacitance touch sensor wherein fluid flow from spout assembly may be activated by the user touching spout assembly . Additional sensors or electronic devices may be positioned within or attached to spout assembly .

Due to the presence of electronics such as the described sensors generally within upper portion a spout control electrical cable is contained within a delivery spout of spout assembly and provides electrical communication between sensor assembly and a controller . Illustratively controller includes a battery compartment operably coupled to a control unit . Additional details of the controller are provided in one or more of the Related Applications including U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 60 661 981 filed Mar. 14 2005 titled BATTERY BOX ASSEMBLY the disclosure of which has been previously expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Valve body assembly also illustratively includes several sensors as explained in more detail in one or more of the Related Applications including U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 662 106 filed Mar. 14 2005 titled VALVE BODY ASSEMBLY WITH ELECTRONIC SWITCHING the disclosure of which has been previously expressly incorporated by reference herein. Valve body assembly illustratively includes a conventional manual valve member such as a mixing ball or disc to provide for the manual control of the flow and temperature of water in response to manual manipulation of a handle supported for movement relative to a holder . A Hall effect sensor not shown is illustratively positioned in holder to detect a position of the manual valve member and hence the handle . Valve body assembly further illustratively includes a capacitance touch sensor not shown wherein fluid flow from spout assembly may be activated by the user touching valve body assembly . Additional sensors or electronic devices may be positioned within or attached to valve body assembly . Due to the presence of electronics such as the described sensors generally within holder a valve control electrical cable is contained within holder and provides electrical communication with controller .

With further reference to the faucet system is in fluid communication with hot water source A and cold water source B. The valve body assembly illustratively mixes hot water from the hot water source and cold water from the cold water source to supply a mixed water to an actuator driven valve through a mixed water conduit . Illustratively the actuator driven valve comprises a conventional magnetically latching solenoid valve of the type available from R.P.E. of Italy. The actuator driven valve is controlled by the controller through an electrical cable and as such controls the flow of mixed water supplied to the spout assembly . As shown in the valves and are arranged in series and are fluidly coupled by mixed water conduit . The spout assembly is configured to dispense mixed water through spray head and into conventional sink basin .

As shown in when the actuator driven valve is open the faucet system may be operated in a conventional manner i.e. in a manual control mode through operation of the handle and the manual valve member of valve body assembly . Conversely when the manually controlled valve body assembly is set to select a water temperature and flow rate the actuator driven valve can be touch controlled or activated by proximity sensors when an object such as a user s hands are within a detection zone to toggle water flow on and off.

In an illustrative embodiment the actuator driven valve is controlled by electronic circuitry within control unit that implements logical control of the faucet assembly . This logical control includes at least two functional modes a manual mode wherein the actuator driven valve remains open and a hands free mode wherein the actuator driven valve is toggled in response to signals from a proximity sensor. Thus in the manual mode the faucet assembly is controlled by the position of the handle in a manner similar to a conventional faucet while in the hands free mode the flow is toggled on and off in response to the proximity sensor while the flow temperature and rate are still controlled by the handle position .

Illustratively the faucet assembly is set to operate in a hands free mode by user interaction for example by input from a push button by input from a strain gauge or a piezoelectric sensor incorporated into a portion of the faucet assembly such as the spout assembly or by input from a capacitive touch button or other capacitive touch detector. It will be appreciated that a touch control whether implemented with a strain gauge or a capacitive touch sensor can respond to contact between a user and the handle that is insufficient to change a position of the handle .

The capacitive touch control may be incorporated into the spout assembly of the faucet assembly as taught by U.S. Pat. No. 6 962 168 titled CAPACITIVE TOUCH ON OFF CONTROL FOR AN AUTOMATIC RESIDENTIAL FAUCET the disclosure of which has been previously expressly incorporated by reference herein. In certain illustrative embodiments the same mode selector can be used to return the faucet assembly from hands free mode to manual mode. In certain of these illustrative embodiments as detailed herein a touch sensor is also incorporated into the handle . In such illustrative embodiments the two touch controls can either operate independently i.e. mode can be changed by touching either one of the touch controls or together so that the mode is changed only when both touch controls are simultaneously touched.

In certain alternative embodiments once placed in hands free mode the faucet assembly can be returned to manual mode simply by returning the manual faucet control handle to a closed position. In addition in certain illustrative embodiments the faucet assembly returns to manual mode after some period of time such as 20 minutes without user intervention. This time out feature may be useful for applications in which power is supplied by batteries because it preserves battery life. In one illustrative embodiment once the hands free mode is activated the actuator driven valve is closed stopping the water flow. This state is the hands free standby state in which water flow will be activated by a proximity detector. The manual valve handle preferably remains in the open position. In other words the manual valve body assembly remains open so that flow is halted only by the actuator driven valve .

In the hands free standby state objects positioned within the sensor s trigger zone cause the faucet assembly to enter the hands free active state wherein the actuator driven valve is opened thus permitting the water to flow. The faucet assembly remains in hands free active mode and the actuator driven valve remains open as long as objects are detected within the sensor s trigger zone. When objects are no longer detected in the sensor s trigger zone the faucet assembly returns to hands free standby mode and the actuator driven valve closes.

It will be appreciated that water flow is important while a user is attempting to adjust the flow rate or temperature. More particularly the user observes these properties as they are adjusted in effect completing a feedback loop. Thus adjustment of the flow properties is another case in which water flow is preferably activated without requiring the user to place his or her hands or an object in the trigger zone. Therefore in the illustrative embodiment when the faucet assembly is in standby hands free mode the faucet assembly switches to active hands free mode and the actuator driven valve is opened whenever the manual control handle is touched.

In certain alternative embodiments when the handle is touched while in hands free mode the faucet assembly switches to manual mode which will of course also result in activating the water flow unless the handle is closed as well as the deactivation of the proximity sensor. If the user wishes to then return to hands free mode he or she may reactivate it in the usual way such as by a touch control.

In the illustrative embodiment the faucet assembly does not immediately enter the hands free mode when the manual valve body assembly is opened and released. Instead the faucet assembly enters a quasi hands free state in which the faucet assembly continues to be manually controlled and the actuator driven valve remains open. This quasi hands free state persists as long as the proximity sensor does not detect the presence of an object within the sensor s trigger zone. This allows the faucet assembly to function as a normal manual valve when initially operated but to switch modes to hands free automatically when sensing the presence of an object within the trigger zone. The advantage of this quasi hands free mode is that the faucet assembly can be operated as a conventional manual faucet without the necessity of manually selecting the manual mode. This is valuable for example in single use activations such as getting a glass of water or when guests use the faucet assembly . In these embodiments when the user initially opens the faucet assembly and adjusts the water temperature or flow rate and then releases the handle the water does not immediately shut off thereby frustrating the user s attempt to operate the faucet assembly as a manual faucet. After the user has adjusted the flow and places an object within the faucet assembly s detection zone the faucet assembly will then enter hands free mode.

Because the behavior of the faucet assembly in response to its various input devices is a function of the mode it is presently in illustratively the faucet assembly includes some type of low power indicator to identify it s current mode. Appropriate indicators include LEDs light emitting diodes LCDs liquid crystal displays or a magnetically latching mechanical indicator. In certain embodiments the mode indicator may simply be a single bit indicator such as a single LED that is activated when the faucet assembly is in hands free mode. Alternatively the mode indicator may include a separate bit display for each possible mode. In still other embodiments the mode indicator may indicate mode in some other way such as a multi color LED in which one color indicates hands free mode and one or more other colors indicate other modes. Additional details regarding the mode indicator are provide herein. Further transition between modes may illustratively be indicated by an audio output.

When a user is finished using the faucet assembly the faucet assembly is illustratively powered down and returned to a baseline state. Powering down provides power savings which makes it more feasible to operate the faucet assembly from battery power. Returning the faucet assembly to a baseline state is helpful because it gives predictable behavior when the user first begins using the faucet assembly in a particular period of operation. Preferably the baseline state is the manual mode since the next user of the faucet assembly might not be familiar with the hands free operation. Illustratively a user is able to power down the faucet assembly and return it to the manual baseline mode simply by returning the manual handle to the closed position because this is a reflexive and intuitive action for users.

As a consequence the illustrative embodiment faucet assembly is configured to sense whether the handle is in the closed position. It will be appreciated that this can be accomplished directly via a sensor in the valve body assembly that detects when the manual valve member is closed such as by including a small magnet in the handle and an appropriately positioned Hall effect sensor. Alternatively the handle position can be observed indirectly for example by measuring water pressure above and below the manual valve or with a commercial flow sensor. However it will be appreciated that this inference that the handle is in a closed position is only valid if the electrically operable valve is open. It will be appreciated that because the actuator driven valve is controlled electronically this is easily tracked by the controller . Thus in the illustrative embodiment the faucet assembly is returned to manual mode when both the actuator driven valve is open and water is not flowing through the faucet assembly .

Illustratively the faucet assembly also includes a watchdog timer which automatically closes the actuator driven valve after a certain period of time in order to prevent overflowing or flooding. In certain of these illustrative embodiments normal operation is resumed once an object is no longer detected in the sensor s trigger zone. In certain other illustrative embodiments normal operation is resumed once the manual valve body assembly is closed. In still other illustrative embodiments normal operation is resumed in either event. In those illustrative embodiments including a hands free mode indicator the indicator is flashed or otherwise controlled to indicate the time out condition.

In addition to the various power saving measures described above the illustrative embodiment also includes an output mechanism that alerts users when batter power is low. It will be appreciated that any suitable output mechanism may be used but illustratively an LED and an audio output are used.

With reference to FIGS. and electrical cable includes a first end having a connector which is electrically coupled to a circuit board in upper portion of spout assembly and a second end having a connector which is electrically coupled to the controller .

Controller and hence at least a portion of electrical cable is positioned underneath the sink deck to which spout assembly and valve body assembly are attached. Electrical cable may be subject to unexpected jerks or other external forces under the sink deck that may place an axial force generally in direction on electrical cable . Such axial force may cause the movement of electrical cable within delivery spout such as within upper portion and may break a wire in electrical cable or connector and or unplug connector from circuit board . Movement of electrical cable may influence the operation of the capacitance touch sensor in spout assembly because such movement may be interpreted by the capacitance touch sensor as a false touch event i.e. the sensor erroneously thinks a user has touched delivery spout . Also a movement of electrical cable may prevent a real touch event a user actually touching the sensor tube from activating fluid flow from spout assembly .

With reference to in order to prevent or minimize the movement of electrical cable within delivery spout and or to prevent or minimize the strain exerted on electrical cable within delivery spout due to axial forces in direction a spout first strain relief member or electrical cable holder is provided proximate to a lower portion of spout assembly and a spout second strain relief member or electrical cable holder is provided proximate to upper portion of spout assembly . By preventing or minimizing the strain exerted on electrical cable within delivery spout due to axial forces in direction first electrical holder provides strain relief to the electrical cable of spout assembly .

Referring further to a partially exploded view of an illustrative embodiment of spout assembly is shown. Additional details about the operation of spout assembly are provided herein and in one or more of the Related Applications including U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 661 982 filed Mar. 14 2005 titled POSITION SENSING DETECTOR ARRANGEMENT FOR CONTROLLING A FAUCET the disclosure of which has been previously expressly incorporated by reference herein.

With reference to first spout electrical holder supports a middle portion of electrical cable which is positioned generally proximate to a lower portion of spout assembly . First spout electrical holder includes a lower portion and an upper portion . Lower portion couples first electrical holder to spout assembly and upper portion holds or retains electrical cable .

As shown in upper portion includes a base member and a plurality of extending protrusions or legs illustratively shown as three legs A B C and D. In alternative embodiments the number and relative positioning of legs may vary. Legs A D are shown as being spaced apart and generally linearly arranged. In alternative embodiments the legs may be spaced apart and arranged in a non linear fashion. Each of legs A D include a foot or tab A D respectively. Tabs A D limit the movement of electrical cable along a longitudinal extent of legs A D. Tabs A D project outward to a side of the respective leg A D that electrical cable is contacting as shown in . In tabs A D are arranged in an alternating fashion due to the placement of electrical cable .

In alternative embodiments other types of holders may be used for first electrical holder such as a clip similar to clip which interacts with a sleeve such as sleeve or other suitable means for preventing or minimizing the movement of electrical cable such as clamps.

Lower portion includes a finger which includes an opening . Referring to opening is sized to receive a fastener which is threadably received in a spout hub of spout assembly . Finger is offset relative to legs A D by a ledge which rests upon an upper portion of spout hub .

Referring further to middle portion of the electrical cable when assembled to first electrical holder includes multiple bends. In the illustrative embodiment electrical cable is passed through legs A D such that electrical cable has a generally serpentine path. This bending of electrical cable about legs A D the rigidity of the first electrical holder and the stiffness of cable prevents or minimizes the movement of electrical cable relative to first electrical holder when an axial force is applied in direction . As such by placing first electrical holder proximate to the lower portion of spout assembly the movement of electrical cable within delivery spout due to the application of an external force in direction is reduced and illustratively minimized.

By placing first electrical holder on a proper position of electrical cable unintended movement of electrical cable within spout housing may be reduced or prevented. In one embodiment the portion of electrical cable held by first electrical holder is selected such that an additional portion of electrical cable is contained within spout housing and follows an inner surface thereof. It is characterized as an additional portion because it is a longer section of electrical cable than is needed to span the distance from upper portion to lower portion . Due to the stiffness of the electrical cable when an appropriate additional portion of electrical cable is selected the electrical cable within spout housing will be at least partially compressed thereby minimizing the movement of the electrical cable within spout housing . In another embodiment the portion of electrical cable held by first electrical holder is selected such that electrical cable is held firmly between first electrical holder and second electrical holder thereby minimizing the movement of the electrical cable .

With reference to spout second electrical holder supports electrical cable generally proximate to first end which includes connector for connection to circuit board . Spout second electrical holder is illustratively defined by support bracket as detailed herein and illustratively includes a cradle . Cradle includes a surface illustratively shown as being generally cylindrical which generally mates with an exterior surface of electrical cable . When spout assembly is assembled electrical cable is held in place due to a contact between surface of electrical cable and surface of cradle and due to a contact between surface and an inner surface of delivery spout .

In alternative embodiments other types of holders may be used for second electrical holder such as a clip similar to clip which interacts with a sleeve such as sleeve or other suitable means for preventing or minimizing the movement of electrical cable such as clamps.

Referring now to and electrical cable of valve body assembly includes a first end having a connector which is electrically coupled to a circuit board in valve body assembly and a second end having a connector which is electrically coupled to controller . As stated before controller and hence at least a portion of electrical cable are positioned underneath the sink deck to which spout assembly and valve body assembly are attached. Electrical cable may be subject to unexpected jerks or other external forces under the sink deck that may place an axial force generally in direction on electrical cable . Such axial force may cause the movement of electrical cable within holder may break a wire in electrical cable or its associated connectors and and or unplug connectors and . The movement of electrical cable within holder may influence the operation of the capacitance touch sensor in valve body assembly because such movement may cause a false touch event or frustrate a real touch event.

In order to prevent or minimize the movement of electrical cable within holder and or to prevent or minimize the strain exerted on electrical cable within holder due to axial forces in direction valve strain relief member or valve electrical cable holder and is provided. By preventing or minimizing the strain exerted on electrical cable within holder due to axial forces in direction valve electrical cable holder provides strain relief to the electrical cable of valve body assembly .

Referring to valve body assembly is shown. A lower portion of valve body assembly includes a base member a gasket and associated plumbing or water conduits . Referring to base member includes a central opening for receiving conduits and electrical cable . Base member further includes a retainer which defines the valve electrical cable holder by holding or otherwise restraining the movement of electrical cable . Retainer is illustratively shown as an arcuate clip extending from an inner wall of base member . In one illustrative embodiment clip is made of a resilient material such that an end portion may be further spaced apart from inner wall to receive electrical cable and thereafter at least partially return towards inner wall to retain electrical cable .

In the illustrated embodiment shown in clip clips over electrical cable directly below a first end portion of a sleeve which is coupled to electrical cable . In one embodiment sleeve is a molded component coupled to electrical cable . In alternative embodiments the sleeve may be integrally formed with the electrical cable . First end portion of sleeve has a radial extent large enough to prevent the passage of sleeve into an opening of clip . As such sleeve prevents the axial movement of electrical cable is direction due to the interaction between first end portion of sleeve and clip .

Referring further to sleeve illustratively further includes a second end portion and a reduced diameter intermediate portion located between first end portion and second end portion . In one embodiment clip receives reduced diameter intermediate portion of sleeve such that any axial movement of electrical cable is limited by the contact of clip with one of first end portion or second end portion . As such sleeve may prevent the movement of electrical cable in both axial directions relative to clip .

Referring further to sleeve is shown assembled with clip . In one embodiment base member is keyed such that base assembles to other components of valve body assembly in a particular orientation. In one illustrative embodiment clip is oriented when base member is assembled such that clip is adjacent to another component of valve body assembly illustratively a mixed water outlet nipple . By placing clip in close proximity with another component such as nipple the other component provides a second mechanism for insuring that electrical cable remains retained by clip .

In alternative embodiments other types of holders may be used for first electrical holder such as a plurality of projecting legs which orient cable such that cable has a generally serpentine path or other suitable means for preventing or minimizing the movement of electrical cable such as clamps.

With reference now to spout assembly includes an outlet formed in upper portion which receives sensor assembly and a retainer for removably coupling spray head to delivery spout . Sensor assembly includes a bracket which is mechanically and electrically connected to the delivery spout at an interface . The bracket may be coupled to the inner surface of the delivery spout through conventional means including brazing welding gluing or other similar methods. The bracket has a threaded opening at a first end and is in electrical communication with a circuit board at a second end . The bracket provides electrical communication between the delivery spout and a capacitive sensor supported on the circuit board . More particularly a connector on the circuit board engages with the second end of the bracket . It should be noted that the combined delivery spout and bracket may be chrome plated or have another similar finish applied thereto.

With reference to and sensor assembly further includes a plastic holder which supports the circuit board an infra red IR sensor a light pipe and a sliding member . The IR sensor may be of the type detailed in one or more of the Related Applications including U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 661 982 filed Mar. 14 2005 titled POSITION SENSING DETECTOR ARRANGEMENT FOR CONTROLLING A FAUCET the disclosure of which has been previously expressly incorporated by reference herein. A reflector cooperates with the light pipe and is configured to assist in directing light from light emitting diodes LEDs to a forward projecting lens . More particularly light pipe butts up against LEDs mounted on the circuit board . Illustratively when the system is in a hands free IR mode the LEDs will flash in one color. Further illustratively when the system is in a touch mode the LEDs will display a second color. The selected colors may be those available from any commercially available LED.

An insulator or gasket isolates the IR sensor from the spout bracket to facilitate proper operation by eliminating undesired contact on the IR sensor . A cable assembly provides electrical communication between the IR sensor and the circuit board .

A lens is coupled to the holder by a conventional fastener such as a threaded bolt passing through an opening formed in the lens and an opening formed within the holder . The fastener is threadably received within the opening of the bracket . In other words the fastener traps the lens and engages with the threaded opening of the bracket to restrain the front end of the sensor assembly . A retention pin is slidably received within an opening formed in the delivery spout and is received within a slot of the holder to secure the rear of the sensor assembly . A trim piece may be received over the holder for aesthetics. Retainer is threadably received within a lower portion of the holder and retains the trim piece . The lens is configured to project through an opening of the trim piece and protect the IR sensor . More particularly the retainer includes an externally threaded ring which passes through an opening of the trim piece and is threadably received within an internally threaded opening of the holder . An annular retaining lip abuts the trim piece and as such couples it to the holder .

The sliding member is illustratively formed of a thermoplastic material and includes a holder and a guide member . The holder is configured to retain a sensing element such as an embedded magnet . The guide member is configured to slide in the direction of arrows A and B within a slot formed within the holder . Illustratively a biasing member such as a spring is configured to bias the sliding member in a direction away arrow B from the outlet of the delivery spout . The spring is illustratively supported on a post formed integral with the sliding member and extends between the guide member and a support bracket .

The support bracket is substantially U shaped and includes upwardly extending first and second legs and supported by the holder . A connector connects the first and second legs and and defines a second electrical holder including cradle for supporting electrical cable as further detailed below. A tab extends outwardly from the second leg and includes an opening for receiving the post supporting spring .

A fluid conduit illustratively a flexible hose of conventional design is coupled to the spray head . The spray head is of conventional design and includes a waterway received within an outer housing or ring . As is known in the art rotation of the outer housing relative to the waterway changes the flow of water between an aerated stream and a spray through operation of a diverter not shown . A collar illustratively a hose nut engages with a lower surface of the guide member of the sliding member as the spray head is moved upwardly into its coupled position with the delivery spout . As may be appreciated the hose nut may be a separate element supported for movement with the spray head or may be formed integral with the waterway or the hose .

When the spray head is coupled to the delivery spout the sliding member is pushed upwards by the hose nut . When the spray head is uncoupled from the delivery spout the sliding member moves down due to gravity and biasing force exerted by the spring . The magnet cooperates with a Hall effect sensor mounted on the circuit board to sense the relative position of the sliding member and as such the spray head . In an illustrative embodiment when the sensor detects that the spray head is uncoupled from the outlet of the delivery spout the controller instructs the valve to automatically turn on the water flow. More particularly in a further illustrative embodiment the Hall effect sensor transmits a signal representative of the relative position of the spray head to the controller which in response thereto places the system in a particular mode of operation i.e. hands free touch or manual .

The retainer illustratively includes a plurality of inwardly extending arms circumferentially spaced within the opening defined by the threaded ring . The arms are illustratively integrally formed with the threaded ring and are biased inwardly. Tabs are formed at the lower end of the arms and are configured to engage an annular groove formed within the waterway of the spray head . Engagement between the tabs and the groove couple the spray head to the delivery spout . Retention is facilitated by the flexible nature of the arms . In the illustrative embodiment an elastomer pad is positioned radially outwardly from each arm and is configured to assist in biasing the arms inwardly. The elastomeric pads provide extra compression set and creep resistance to the arms . If the arms or trim piece are damaged the retainer can be easily removed and either component replaced.

With reference to the retainer illustratively includes four circumferentially spaced arms although the number and spacing of the arms may vary. The sides of the arms include chamfered surfaces to provide easy docking of the spray head . A straight land area of each arm is configured to engage with an adjacent tab or rib formed on the waterway of the spray head . The engagement between the areas and the ribs prevents relative rotation between the waterway of the spray head and the retainer . As such a rotation of the outer housing of the spray head is resisted by the waterway such that relative rotation occurs between outer housing and waterway . This allows the conventional diverter to change fluid flow between an aerated stream to a spray in response to rotation of the outer housing.

While the illustrative embodiment retainer utilizes circumferentially spaced inwardly biased arms to couple the spray head to the delivery spout it should be appreciated that other couplers may be substituted therefor. For example a conventional bayonet coupler or retainer as shown in may be used to couple the spray head to the delivery spout . More particularly the retainer illustratively includes a slot including a circumferential portion and an axial portion . The slot is configured to receive a pin supported by the waterway hose at the spray head . Pin of spray head is inserted into circumferential portion of slot and then moved upwardly and rotated until it is axially locked by a retaining surface . Operation of the diverter not shown to toggle water flow between a stream and a spray is controlled by a push button .

With reference now to spout hub is received within the lower portion of spout . Illustratively the spout hub is formed of brass and secured to spout in a conventional manner for example through brazing. A valve body assembly is illustratively removably received within the spout hub for securing the spout assembly to the sink deck . The valve body assembly illustratively includes a valve body formed of a metal such as brass and including a threaded portion configured to receive a securing nut .

A base illustratively formed of a plastic is received around the valve body and is supported above the sink deck . A sealing gasket illustratively formed of a resilient material is positioned intermediate the base and the sink deck . A mounting washer and an isolator are secured below the sink deck by the securing nut . More particularly the sink deck is clamped between the base and the isolator by the securing nut thereby securing the spout assembly to the deck . A friction spacer is positioned on valve body and is frictionally received within the spout hub . An electrical clip is received around the valve body and provides electrical communication between valve body and spout hub . If electrical communication or isolation between valve body and the capacitance touch sensor is inconsistent false touch events may occur due to unintended and typically sporadic electrical isolation or communication . By maintaining electrical communication between valve body and spout hub and hence spout and capacitance touch sensor through brackets such instances of false touch events may be reduced or eliminated.

Although the invention has been described in detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments variations and modifications exist within the spirit and scope of the invention as described and defined in the following claims.

