---

title: System and method for calculating and displaying volume to identify buying and selling in an electronic trading environment
abstract: A system and method are provided for calculating and displaying volume to identify aggressive buying or selling activity. In a preferred embodiment, market information such as the inside market, last traded price, and last traded quantity is received from the electronic exchange and is used to assist a trader in determining the initiative side of a trade, either bid side or ask side. Once a determination is made, the result may be used to assist a trader analyzing the market volume. Other features and advantages are described herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07403921&OS=07403921&RS=07403921
owner: Trading Technologies International Inc.
number: 07403921
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060503
---
The present patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 370 693 filed on Mar. 8 2006 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 694 777 filed on Jun. 28 2005 entitled Analyzing Volume to Identify Accumulation and Distribution. 

The present invention is directed towards electronic trading. More specifically the present invention is directed towards a method for calculating and displaying traded volume information in an electronic trading environment.

An exchange is a central marketplace with established rules and regulations where buyers and sellers referred to as traders meet to trade. Some exchanges referred to as open outcry exchanges operate using a trading floor where buyers and sellers physically meet on the floor to trade. Other exchanges referred to as electronic exchanges operate by an electronic or telecommunications network. An electronic exchange typically provides computerized matching between traders. Some example electronic exchanges include European Exchange Eurex London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange LIFFE Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME and Chicago Board of Trade CBOT .

With respect to electronic exchanges traders connect to an electronic trading platform by way of a communication link through their user terminals. Once connected traders typically choose which tradeable objects they wish to trade. As used herein the term tradeable object refers to anything that can be traded with a quantity and or price. It includes but is not limited to all types of traded events goods and or financial products which can include for example stocks options bonds futures currency and warrants as well as funds derivatives and collections of the foregoing and all types of commodities such as grains energy and metals. The tradeable object may be real such as products that are listed by an exchange for trading or synthetic such as a combination of real products that is created by the user. A tradeable object could actually be a combination of other tradeable objects such as a class of tradeable objects.

User terminals also referred to as client devices are connected to the electronic trading platform by way of a communication link to facilitate electronic messaging between the trading entities and the exchange. The messaging includes market information that is distributed from the electronic exchange to traders as well as orders quotes acknowledgements fills cancels deletes cancel and replace and other well known financial transaction messages. Although the amount or type of market information published by the exchange often differs there are some standard pieces of information. Market information may include data that represents just the inside market which refers to the lowest sell price best ask and the highest buy price best bid at a particular point in time. Market information may also include market depth which refers to quantities available at the inside market and can also refer to quantities available at other prices away from the inside market.

Once the client device receives the market information it may be displayed on the trading screen. Upon viewing the market information traders can take certain actions including the actions of sending buy or sell orders to the electronic exchange adjusting existing orders deleting orders or otherwise managing orders. There are a variety of different order types that a trader can enter in the electronic market. Traders may also use software tools to chart and graphically display the received market information or information calculated using the market information.

Over the years a number of these software tools in the form of analysis systems and graphical charting displays have been created to assist traders in analyzing and attempting to predict market behavior. By providing such information traders are generally able to assimilate enormous amounts of data and make more informed decisions. The use of such tools has also enhanced the level of intuition a trader may gain when trading in an electronic trading environment.

A conventional method of assimilating market information received from an exchange is for example to chart the information in a graphical display. Many different methods of charting market information are used by traders such as historical or real time market data charts pie charts bar chars or traditional candlestick charts. Similarly many different types of market information can be charted for example volume price vs. time or last traded quantity. Traders often use the charted market information to assist them in identifying market patterns and market trends.

A common method of analyzing the volume and market activity is by watching time and sales prints as trades are posted. This method of volume analysis has traditionally been known as tape reading. Practitioners watch the trades occurring in real time looking for clues as to which side of the market buy or sell large trades are occurring on observing the relative speed of the trades the responsiveness of the other side as a large or small trade occurs etc. The information flow is internalized by the trader over time and the knowledge helps the trader decide how and when to respond.

However this decision making approach is extremely subjective and requires many hours of observation to understand and effectively apply the approach. Also if a trader leaves his screen and does not view market activity for some time their relative baseline framework will be lost and upon their return it will take the trader more time to get back up to speed.

Another traditional method of analyzing volume information which may be considered an improvement by some to the tape reading method is to create a running total volume of the difference between the buying volume and the selling volume commonly referred to as On Balance Volume OBV . The OBV method adds or subtracts each traded volume to or from the running total volume based on relative price movement between the current trade and the last trade. For example if the current traded price is higher than the last traded price then the volume associated with the current trade is added to the running total volume. If the current traded price is lower than the last traded price then the volume associated with the current trade is subtracted from the running total volume. The OBV running total volume is then charted or graphically displayed on a trading chart alongside market prices which can be similar or different than the charted market prices.

While the previously described methods used for analyzing volume have provided traders with valuable information it is desirable to offer an improved method for volume analysis that provides more accurate information regarding the trading activity of the tradeable object.

The example embodiments described herein provide a quantifiable approach to analyzing traded volume. The example embodiments introduce a method of calculating and displaying traded volume to determine the aggressiveness towards either the bid or ask side of the market more intelligently than the traditional methods. This method of calculating traded volume is referred to hereinafter as Cumulative Volume Delta CVD . The CVD traded volume analysis involves adding or subtracting the volume associated with each trade from a running total volume. The decision to add or subtract the volume from the running total volume is based on what side of the market each trade was initiated on. If the current trade was initiated on the ask side of the market which indicates buying activity then the volume associated to the trade is added to the running total volume. Likewise if the current trade was initiated on the bid side of the market which indicates selling activity the volume associated with the trade is subtracted from the running total volume.

According to the example embodiments the raw market information received from the electronic exchange is used to determine which side of the market the trade was initiated on using an algorithm. However it should be understood that some exchanges may provide this information in which case a determination is not made. Regardless of what raw market information is provided from the exchange the CVD method may be applied. Additionally tracking which side of the market the trade is initiated on provides some of the elements used to chart the levels of buying activity versus selling activity in the market.

The example embodiments also introduce the CVD indicator which displays the running total volume calculated using the market information provided from the electronic exchange. The CVD method helps a trader to determine whether volume was initiated on the bid or ask side instead of only highlighting if the market is going up or down as many common trading charts display. An additional advantage of the CVD method is that it is it determines the initiate state for all trades whereas the OBV method only compares the trades that alter the last traded price. The CVD indicator provides important information to a trader such as if the market has aggressive buying pressure or aggressive selling pressure in a novel and more accurate way than using the traditional methods.

While the present invention is described herein with reference to illustrative embodiments it should be understood that the present invention is not limited thereto. Other systems methods and advantages of the present embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

The computer employed as the trading station generally can range from a hand held device laptop or personal computer to a larger computer such as a workstation and multiprocessor. Generally the trading station includes a monitor or any other output device and an input device such as a keyboard and or a two or three button mouse to support click based trading if so desired. One skilled in the art of computer systems will understand that the present example embodiments are not limited to any particular class or model of computer employed for the trading station and will be able to select an appropriate system.

The computer employed as the gateway generally can range from a personal computer to a larger computer. Generally the gateway may additionally include a monitor or any other output device input device for example a keyboard mouse etc. and access to a database if so desired. One skilled in the art of computer systems will also understand that the present example embodiments are not limited to any particular class or model of computer s employed for the gateway and will be able to select an appropriate system.

It should be noted that a computer system that may be employed here as a trading station or a gateway generally includes a central processing unit a memory unit a primary and or secondary memory unit an input interface for receiving data from a communications network an input interface for receiving input signals from one or more input devices for example a keyboard mouse etc. and an output interface for communications with an output device for example a monitor . A system bus or an equivalent system may provide communications between these various elements.

It should also be noted that the trading station generally executes application programs resident at the trading station under the control of the operating system of the trading station . For example the CVD method may be carried out at the trading station based on market information received from the electronic exchange . Also the gateway executes application programs resident at the gateway under the control of the operating system of the gateway . In other embodiments and as understood by a person skilled in the art the function of the application programs at the trading station may be performed by the gateway and likewise the function of the application programs at the gateway may be performed by the trading station .

The actual electronic trading system configurations are numerous and a person skilled in the art of electronic trading systems would be able to construct a suitable network configuration. For the purposes of illustration some example configurations are provided to illustrate where the elements may be physically located and how they might be connected to form an electronic trading system these illustrations are meant to be helpful to the reader and they are not meant to be limiting. According to one example illustration the gateway device may be located at the client site along with the trading station which is usually remote from the matching process at the electronic exchange. According to this instance the trading station the gateway and the router may communicate over a local area network and the router may communicate with the matching process at the electronic exchange over a T1 T3 ISDN or some other high speed connection.

In another example illustration not shown in the Figures the client site may be located on the actual grounds of the electronic exchange for example in the building of the exchange . According to this example illustration the trading station the gateway and the router may still communicate over a local area network but the router may communicate with the matching process at the electronic exchange through another connection means besides a T1 T3 or ISDN.

In yet another example illustration not shown in the Figures the gateway may be housed at or near its corresponding electronic exchange . According to this instance the trading station may communicate with the gateway over a wide area network or through the use of a T1 T3 ISDN or some other high speed connection.

In another example illustration not shown in the Figures the gateway may be located remote from the trading station and remote from the electronic exchange which might be particularly useful in systems that include interconnection of multiple trading networks. Thus one trading network might have gateway access to an electronic exchange. Then other trading networks may communicate with the trading network that has gateway access through a T1 T3 ISDN or some other high speed connection.

The trading system presented in provides the trader with the opportunity to trade tradeable objects listed at different electronic exchanges. To some traders there can be many advantages with a multi exchange trading environment. For example a trader could view market information from each tradeable object through one common visual display. As such price and quantity information from the two separate exchanges may be presented together so that the trader can view both markets simultaneously in the same window. Similarly the trader may also view the charted CVD indicator or the calculated CVD value for each of the electronic exchanges using the CVD method described herein.

As indicated earlier one skilled in the art of electronic trading systems will understand that the present embodiments are not limited to the particular configurations illustrated and described with respect to and and will be able to design a particular electronic trading system based on the specific requirements for example by adding additional exchanges gateways trading stations routers or other computers serving various functions like message handling and security . Additionally several networks like either of the networks shown in or may be linked together to communicatively access one or more electronic exchanges.

Preferably trading application has access to market information from one or more exchanges through API or application programming interface and trading application can also forward transaction information to exchange via API . Alternatively API could be distributed so that a portion of the API rests on the trading station and a gateway similar to the type of gateways and shown in and or at the exchange . Additionally trading application may receive signals from input device via input device interface and can be given the ability to send signals to display device via display device interface .

Alternatively the example embodiments described herein may be a separate program from trading application but still stored in memory and executed on the trading station . In another alternative embodiment the preferred embodiments may be a program stored in memory and executed on a device other than trading station . Example devices may include a gateway or some other well known intermediary device. The trading station may use software that creates trading screens or charts on the trading station . The trading screen enables the user to enter and execute orders obtain market quotes and monitor positions. The trading charts allow traders to analyze market information in a visual display such as a CVD indicator. The range and quality of features available to the trader on his or her trading screens vary according to the specific software application being run.

As trades occur in the market it is useful for a trader to know how much volume is being traded as well as how much volume is associated to each side of the market bid side or ask side. According to the CVD method the initiative nature of each trade whether the trade occurred on the bid or ask is used to determine if the quantity associated with that trade should be added to or subtracted from the running total volume. The traditional OBV only compares the relative price movement between the last traded price and the previous last traded price to determine if the volume should be added to or subtracted from the running total volume. Differences between the CVD method and the traditional OBV method will be shown and described in further detail in reference to .

At step the trading application such as one described in reference to or receives market information from the electronic exchange also shown in or . As previously described the market information may include the inside market last traded price and last traded quantity.

At step the trading application uses the market information received from the electronic exchange to determine whether the trade was initiated on the bid or ask side. This determination is accomplished by comparing the last traded price to the best bid and best ask prices of the inside market. If the last traded price is equal to the best bid price then the last trade is considered to be on the bid side and is associated with selling pressure in the market. If the last traded price is equal to the best ask price then the last trade is considered to be on the ask side and is associated with buying pressure in the market. If the last traded price is outside of the inside market then the CVD method may handle the trade in a variety of ways. For example the CVD method may choose to not calculate or chart a CVD value for that trade. Another way to handle a trade that is outside of the inside market may be to compare the last traded price to the inside market and if the last traded price is below the best bid consider it to be on the bid side and if the last traded price is higher than the best ask consider it to be on the ask side. Similarly if a gap exists between the inside market prices the CVD method may choose to not calculate or chart a CVD value for the last trade or it could check which inside market price bid or ask most recently populated the price level or the last trade.

At step if the trading application has determined that the last trade was initiated on the bid side of the market then the quantity associated to the last trade is subtracted from the running total volume. The trading application then moves to step .

At step if the trading application has determined that the last trade was initiated on the ask side of the market then the quantity associated with the last trade is added to the running total volume. The trading application then moves to step .

When CVD is tracked for the first time the running total volume value may start at 0 and build from there as volume is traded for that specific tradeable object. As CVD is tracked starting at the beginning of a trading day or at some other time period the volume value may start from where the volume ended the previous day or the previous time thus creating a continuous historical CVD chart. The volume value may also be user configured and in which case the calculations would start from the user defined value.

At step if charting is enabled the trading application has completed the CVD method calculations and will chart the calculated CVD indicator. It should be understood that the CVD indicator does not have to be charted and that step is configurable by the trader. For example the CVD indicator may be used in a spread sheet as a value on the screen as any other type of indicator or used in a trading strategy.

To illustrate some differences between CVD and OBV provides a table illustrating example market information used to calculate CVD and OBV. The calculations shown in table are based on the analysis of six consecutive trades for the same tradeable object. Table includes a Trade column BidQty column a BidPrc column an AskPrc column an AskQty column a TradePrc column a TradeQty column an OBV column and a CVD column . The information in columns would normally be provided by the electronic exchange. The Trade column displays the number corresponding to the order of each trade the BidQty column displays the quantity of the best bid the BidPrc column displays the price level of the best bid the AskPrc column displays the price level of the best ask the AskQty column displays the quantity of the best ask the TradePrc column displays the price at which a trade is submitted at the TradeQty column displays the quantity of the submitted trade the OBV column displays the calculated total volume value using the OBV method and the CVD column displays the calculated total volume value using the CVD method.

Referring to using the information provided in table shown in trading application as described in reference to or starts with Trade Trade column having already occurred at a price level of 54 TradePrc and has a quantity of 17 TradeQty column in the market. At the time of Trade the best bid was at a price level of 54 BidPrc column and best ask price of 55 AskPrc column . Also associated with Trade is a running total volume value of 500 being used as the starting volume for each method as shown in OBV column and CVD column . The market information corresponding to Trade is provided for the purposes of calculating OBV.

Per step shown in market information corresponding to Trade is received from the electronic exchange. At that time the best bid is at a price level of 54 BidPrc column and has a quantity of 90 BidQty column . Similarly the best ask is at a price of 55 AskPrc column and has a quantity of 100 AskQty column .

Per step shown in Trade is determined to be a trade on the bid side because the BidPrc of 54 is equal to the TradePrc of 54 shown in the second row of table . In other words the trade price of Trade is compared to the inside market. Since the trade price of Trade is equal to the bid price of the inside market the quantity associated with Trade is subtracted from CVD column . Referring to chart Trade is submitted at the price level of 54 TradePrc and has a quantity of 10 TradeQty . At the time of Trade the inside market has a bid at 54 BidPrc and an ask at 55 AskPrc .

Based on the CVD method Trade Trade column was determined to be made on the bid side of the market because the BidPrc of 54 is equal to the TradePrc of 54 . Per step in the quantity associated with the Trade is subtracted from the CVD running total in the CVD column . According to the CVD method the total volume would be calculated as follows CVD 518 TradeQty 514 total volume Trade 1 500 10 490

Based on the OBV method of calculating volume the trade price of Trade is compared to the last traded price of Trade which is 54 . OBV does not recognize a price change between the last traded price and the current trade price. Because there is not a price change between the last traded price and the current trade price the OBV does not make a calculation and the running total volume remains the same.

Market information is again received from the electronic exchange including the information corresponding to Trade Trade column per step . At the time the best bid is at a price level of 53 BidPrc column and has a quantity of 70 BidQty column . Similarly the best ask is at a price level of 54 BidPrc column and has a quantity of 100 BidQty column .

At step the trading application determines whether or not to add or subtract the last traded quantity from running total volume and because the last traded price of Trade is equal to the best bid price BidPrc the trade is on the bid side and is subtracted. The following calculations are made using the CVD method. CVD 518 TradeQty 514 total volume Trade 2 490 20 470 at Step 408 

Based on the OBV method of calculating volume the trade price of Trade is compared to the last traded price of Trade which is 54 . OBV recognizes a price difference between the last traded price and the previous last traded price and then subtracts the quantity associated with Trade . OBV however still does not take into account the side of the market Trade was made on but only the relative difference between prices. OBV 516 TradeQty 514 total volume Trade 2 500 20 480

Chart now displays the market information for the next four trades Trades and which are submitted to the market at the same price level of 53 all on the ask side of the market. As shown in CVD adds all of the quantity to the CVD running total volume because although all the trades are submitted at the same price level they all occurred on the ask side of the market specifically at the best ask price. OBV does not recognize a change in prices and therefore remains the same over the next four trades.

Referring back to specific examples shown in market information corresponding to Trade Trade column is now received from the electronic exchange. At the time the best bid is at a price level of 52 BidPrc column and has a quantity of 70 BidQty column . Similarly the best ask is at a price level of 53 AskPrc column and has a quantity of 88 AskQty column .

Per step Trade is submitted at the price level of 53 TradePrc and has a quantity of 12 TradeQty . Trade is determined to be a trade on the ask side because it is equal to the best ask price 53 AskPrc column and the associated quantity is then added to the CVD running total CVD .

Based on the CVD method because Trade was made on the ask side CVD is calculated using the quantity associated to Trade as follows CVD 518 TradeQty 514 total volume Trade 3 470 12 482 step 406 

The following trades Trades Trade are calculated using the CVD method as follows CVD 518 TradeQty 514 total volume Trade 4 482 15 497 step 406 Trade 5 497 20 517 step 406 Trade 6 517 13 530 step 406 

Adding the quantities associated to the last four trades to the CVD running total causes the CVD running total volume in the CVD column to increase. CVD data will provide an illustrated view displaying that although the price at which trades were initiated and matched did not change a buying activity occurred in the market. The last 4 trades were submitted at the same price level so the market movement was horizontal instead of upward or downward. It is also during the times of horizontal market movement that traders need a tool to help identify buying activity trades placed on the ask side of the market or selling activity trades placed on the bid side of the market during the horizontal market movement.

The result of the OBV method can be misleading and counterintuitive to a trader if used as a tool for volume analysis. For example during the last four trades the trader would see horizontal movement and not any upward or downward movement in the OBV chart because the trades were all initiated at the same price as the last traded price. However the CVD chart will clearly illustrate that traders are aggressively submitting ask trades to the market. CVD provides the trader with a more accurate representation of the true buying and selling activity taking place in the market. OBV does not recognize a price change between the last traded price and the current trade price. OBV simply provides information about the running total volumes and does not take into account the side that a trade is initiated on and therefore remains the same when there is not a difference in the inside market prices and the current trade price.

In addition to using the CVD method to calculate a CVD value CVD may be charted for a trader to visually analyze. A CVD indicator can be charted over any period of time depending on a trader s desires. It should be understood that the method of displaying and charting the CVD indicator is configurable by the trader and is not limited to the example embodiments described herein.

A trader can chart the CVD indicator on any of the traditional charts such as historical real time candlestick. A CVD indicator can also be charted as a derivative of the CVD value such as absolute value average slope etc. A trader can also analyze the charted CVD indicator using the same traditional methods of analyzing other charts or graphical displays. One method to analyze a chart is to look for confirmation and divergence between price and the CVD indicator. Confirmation is defined as the occurrence of two or more indicators e.g. market price and CVD corresponding with one another and thereby corroborating the predicted trend. For example if the market is moving higher with true buying pressure then higher prices should be confirmed with higher CVD values. Conversely a market with prices moving lower should be confirmed with lower CVD values. A divergence is defined as a situation in which the price of a tradeable object and an indicator move in opposite directions. For example if market prices are moving higher while CVD is moving horizontally or lower then CVD is signaling to the trader that more selling than buying is occurring in the market during the price rise. A divergence of lower prices with a horizontal to higher moving CVD line shows a trader that more buying pressure than selling pressure is taking place in the market as the prices move lower.

Price chart displays the historical trading chart for the given tradeable object. As trades are initiated by a trader trades are displayed on price chart . Price chart is similar to charts that traders use to analyze the movement of the market throughout a given time period. CVD chart displays the historical CVD indicator in relation to the price chart and the OBV chart . CVD is calculated using the method previously described in detail and the CVD indicator is then charted on the CVD chart in . Likewise OBV chart displays the historical OBV volume in relation price chart and the CVD chart . OBV is also calculated and then charted on the OBV chart .

Axis includes the price range associated with price chart and the volume ranges associated with the CVD chart and OBV chart . As shown in for the tradeable object the price range associated with price chart is between 112180 and 112280 and the volume range for CVD and OBV is between 10 000 and 10 000 . The volume range for CVD and OBV is based on what value is configured to be the start value in this example the start value is 0 . As previously described the start value can be anything and is user configurable. Each trade is initiated at a specific time which can be shown on time axis . As shown on time axis in chart trades have been initiated just before 7 00 and about 13 30. The trader may choose to display all the trades that occurred since the start of day or may choose to display a different time period for example 5 minutes 1 day or 30 days.

Price chart also includes key points A B C D E and F. These points are displayed for purposes of description and will be further explained below. CVD chart also includes key points at and and the OBV chart includes key points at and . It should be understood that the components of chart may be altered as well as the position of each component and what could be displayed should not be limited to what is shown in . For example chart may display a price chart and a CVD chart or for example only CVD chart .

Referring now to the price chart shown in the market moved down from Point A on price chart . The downward market movement from price level 112280 on axis at around time 7 20 AM on time axis down to price level 112210 on axis at around time 7 40 AM on time axis was confirmed by lower volume values in both the CVD and OBV indicators. These lower values can be seen at on CVD and at on OBV . Not only is the CVD indicator moving down which indicates selling pressure a trader will also understand that this means there is less volume being traded and there were more traders trading at Point A than there were after the market moved down.

After the market stabilized around price level 112220 on axis at around time 8 00 AM on time axis the market moved back up to Point B on price chart . While the market prices on chart moved up the CVD indicator will show that the initial volume of traders trading in the market at point A was still higher than at point B even though the prices reflect strong buying taking place. Both the CVD and OBV indicators represented the volume distinctly differently on their charts.

According to the CVD chart the market had increased selling pressure at . In fact at the peak Point B on price chart CVD chart had clearly displayed volume loss from more selling activity than buying activity while price was advancing on price chart . CVD more accurately confirmed the true pressures in the market. Although the price surged before Point B on price chart CVD chart showed downward movement which illustrates that more traders were actually selling than buying at . A trader using the CVD chart would see that the CVD indicator continues to move downward after and would therefore look to the price chart to confirm that the market prices would continue to fall again after the peak at Point B. CVD accurately assessed the selling pressure at which is later confirmed in price chart as the price falls after Point B.

The OBV chart showed misleading buying pressure and volume of traders trading in the market at . A trader using the OBV chart would be misled to buying into the market due to the divergence of the market prices in price chart and the OBV chart . OBV chart provided inaccurate information as to the true buying selling pressure of the market at . From analyzing the OBV chart a trader would also inaccurately believe that there were more traders participating in buying the market which CVD proves is not the case at with a decrease in the CVD indicator.

From Point B to Point C the market falls the approximate price level of 112205 on axis at around time 9 40 AM on time axis . The buying selling activity from Point B down to Point C also produced a lower CVD indicator on CVD chart . The downward movement in the market confirms the CVD indicator in the CVD chart . The CVD chart also implies that the market will continue falling due to heightened selling pressure before rising up again.

From Point C to Point D on price chart the market makes a short reversal in market movement from where the preceding market trend was going and price again falls lower to Point D. But as the price falls on price chart the CVD chart diverges and indicates increased buying pressure.

CVD chart accurately displays the increased volume of traders in the market from point C to point D. CVD chart was also warning and alerting traders that although the market prices were moving down in price chart traders were buying and the market was about to move up illustrated at .

Again OBV chart misrepresents what trades are actually initiating in the market. A trader analyzing the OBV chart at would recognize the divergence and believe the market was not going to rise but alternatively would continue falling. As can be seen in price chart the market prices did move up and reacted as CVD chart illustrated it would.

As shown from Point D to Point E the CVD indicator on CVD chart prices subsequently moved higher from Point D to Point E on price chart . Both CVD and OBV indicators moved higher along with the prices in price chart however they again differed when the market reached Point F and rendered two different versions of what was happening in the market.

The CVD indicator is displayed horizontally to slightly upward depicting a strengthening market and buying activity taking place. A trader analyzing the CVD chart is going to hold their market position because there is more buying than selling taking place. As price chart will confirm the prices promptly moved higher after Point F on price chart and peaked around price level 112270 on axis at around time 1 00 on time axis .

OBV chart is displayed horizontally to slightly downward depicting a weakening market and selling activity taking place. Again CVD and OBV differ and the result to the trader is a different view of what is happening in the market. Unfortunately the OBV chart displays a divergence between the market prices and the OBV indicator and would have led a trader astray many times causing risk and possible lost profits.

Another example embodiment may include applying the CVD method to a sector or a group of tradeable objects in the same industry or market. Applying the CVD method to an entire sector may provide information to a trader regarding the underlying aggressive actions buying or selling of a particular sector index. An increase or decrease in a CVD sector index indictor would indicate the total actions initiated by traders across all the tradeable objects that comprise the sector index.

At step the trading application such as the one shown in or receives market information from the electronic exchange. As previously described the market information may include the inside market last traded price and last traded quantity as well as an exchange provided point value for each tradable object.

At step the trading application uses the market information received from the exchange to calculate the value of each tradeable object included in the sector index and the total index tradeable object value. The value of each tradeable object correlates to how much the specific tradeable object is worth at any given moment. To calculate the value of each tradeable object the trading application multiplies the point value for each tradeable object by the last traded price.

The point value associated with a tradeable object is a value provided by the electronic exchange. The point value is defined as the actual dollar value assigned to each price level or point. The pricing structure for each tradeable object is different and in order to discuss the tradeable objects on the same level a calculation is made to reduce them into a common denominator. If a point value for a tradeable object is defined to be 10.00 then each price level or point that the tradeable object moves up is a 10.00 profit for the trader. For example if a trader submits a trade with a quantity of 1 at a price of 50 and the price moves up to the price level of 51 then the trader has made a profit of 10.00 .

Once each tradeable object value has been calculated the total index tradeable object value may be calculated. To calculate the total index tradeable object value the calculated tradeable object values are added together.

At step the CVD weights are calculated for each tradeable object. Each tradeable object accounts for a different percentage of value attributed to the sector therefore each tradeable object is weighted differently. To determine the weight of each tradeable object the trading application divides the tradeable object value for each tradeable object by the total index tradeable object value. The weight of each tradeable object can be represented as a percentage that defines how much volume of the total sector index volume that specific tradeable object accounts for.

At step using the previously discussed CVD method the CVD for each tradeable object included in the sector index is calculated.

At step using the calculated CVD for each tradeable object and the calculated weights of each tradeable object the trading application calculates the total CVD for the sector index. The sum of each tradeable object s CVD value multiplied by the weight of that tradeable object which results in the total CVD value for the sector index.

As shown in table the E Mini Equity Index is made up of four equity index tradeable objects displayed in the tradeable object column . The tradeable objects included in the E Mini Equity Index are the E Mini S P 500 E Mini Nasdaq 100 E Mini Russell 200 and the E Mini Midcap 400. The last traded prices for the tradeable objects are 1272.00 1688.00 720.80 and 767.20 respectively. Likewise the point values for the tradeable objects are 50.00 20.00 100.00 and 100.00 respectively. The calculated value for the tradeable objects are 36 600 33 760 77 800 and 76 720 respectively. And the calculated weights for the tradeable objects are 25.76 13.76 29.49 and 31.08 respectively.

Per step shown in the trading application receives market information from the electronic exchange that includes among other things the last traded price and the point value for each of the tradeable objects displayed in table .

Per step shown in using the received last traded price and point value for each tradeable object the trading application calculates the tradeable object value for each tradeable object. The resulting tradeable object value is displayed in table . The following calculation is made for each tradeable object using the information found in table Tradeable Object Value Last Traded Price Point Value

Using the calculated tradeable object values the total tradeable object value can be calculated as follows Total Tradeable Object Value 63 600 33 760 72 800 76 720 246 880

Per step shown in using the calculated tradeable object values for each tradeable object and the total tradeable object value the weight for each tradeable object can be calculated as follows Tradeable Object Weight Tradeable Object Value Total Tradeable Object Value

Per step shown in using the CVD method previously discussed in detail the CVD is calculated for each tradeable object starting from the same value.

Per step shown in using the calculated weight and the CVD for each tradeable object the total CVD for the sector index can be calculated. The total CVD for the index can be calculated by multiplying the CVD of each tradeable object by the corresponding weight and adding the results. The total CVD can be calculated is as follows CVD E Mini Equity Index CVD of E Mini S P500 0.2576 CVD of E Mini Nasdaq 100 0.1376 CVD of E Mini Russell 2000 0.2949 CVD of E Mini MidCap 400 0.3108 

A trader may compare the calculated CVD for the sector index to a previously calculated CVD for the same index or for another index. By comparing the CVD of an index from one time period to the CVD of the same index from another time period the trader may determine if other traders are more aggressively buying or selling within that index between the two time periods. Likewise by comparing the CVD values of two or more separate indexes a trader may determine if the indexes have more buying activity or selling activity over each other.

The example embodiments described herein provide a method for analyzing the raw market information received from an electronic exchange. CVD determines the initiate nature of each trade and uses that information to more accurately calculate and display the activity in the market. Using this information traders can better assess what is happening in the market why it is happening in the market and what may happen next.

The above description of the preferred embodiments alternative embodiments and specific examples are given by way of illustration and should not be viewed as limiting. Further many changes and modifications within the scope of the present embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit thereof and the present invention includes such changes and modifications.

It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that methods involved in the system and method for calculating and displaying volume to identify accumulation and distribution may be embodied in a computer program product that includes one or more computer readable media. For example a computer readable medium can include a readable memory device such as a hard drive device a CD ROM a DVD ROM or a computer diskette having computer readable program code segments stored thereon. The computer readable medium can also include a communications or transmission medium such as a bus or a communication link either optical wired or wireless having program code segments carried thereon as digital or analog data signals.

The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. Therefore all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

