---

title: Apparatus and method to pulverize rock using a superconducting electromagnetic linear motor
abstract: A rock pulverizer device based on a superconducting linear motor. The superconducting electromagnetic rock pulverizer accelerates a projectile via a superconducting linear motor and directs the projectile at high speed toward a rock structure that is to be pulverized by collision of the speeding projectile with the rock structure. The rock pulverizer is comprised of a trapped field superconducting secondary magnet mounted on a movable car following a track, a wire wound series of primary magnets mounted on the track, and the complete magnet/track system mounted on a vehicle used for movement of the pulverizer through a mine as well as for momentum transfer during launch of the rock breaking projectile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07634989&OS=07634989&RS=07634989
owner: The University of Houston System
number: 07634989
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060602
---
The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of a grant awarded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA .

The invention relates generally to a method and apparatus for pulverizing a formation including useable raw materials such as an ore coal or the like using a high speed projectile accelerator to hurl projectiles at the formation to breakup or pulverize a portion of an exposed surface of the formation.

More particularly the invention relates to an apparatus for hurling one projectile or a plurality of projectiles at an exposed surface of a formation including a projectile car mounted on a track having two parallel rails where the car includes a trapped field magnet and the track includes a plurality of electromagnets that can be turned on and off as the car moves down the track accelerating the car to a desired velocity. The apparatus also includes a stop assembly at its distal end designed to engage and nearly instantaneously stop the forward motion of the car expelling the projectile or the projectiles disposed in a projectile holder on the car. If the distal end of the apparatus is positioned adjacent a surface then the projectile would impact the surface breaking or pulverizing the surface. The invention also relates to a method for breaking up or pulverizing a surface using the apparatus of this invention. In one embodiment the apparatus comprises a superconducting linear motor.

The mining industry has a significant need for an apparatus and method to breakup large rock sections loosened during mining operations such as blasting or other means. These rock sections can be up to 30 cubic meters in volume and require break up into smaller pieces for transport out of the mine. Several approaches have been tried including 1 additional blasting this is not necessarily cost effective due to the need for drilling new set charge holes setting new charges evacuating the mine and removing the residual gas 2 steam compressed air hammers this requires a source of steam or compressed air and is limited as to hammer size and velocity and 3 rf induction heating to fractionate this requires water porosity of the rock structure large and inefficient rf transmitters and safety procedures to protect against high levels of rf radiation. To pulverize a 30 cubic meter section of rock energy of approximately 1 Mjoule is required. As an example for a projectile launcher this would require a projectile of approximately 1 000 kg at a speed of about 33 meters sec about 75 miles hr . These requirements show the inadequacy of using a steam compressed air hammer approach to break rock.

Electromagnetic motors have been described for the acceleration of a mass for warfare applications as in a rail gun in U.S. Pat. No. 5 078 043 column 5 which patent is incorporated herein by this reference. The inclusion of superconducting material to a rail gun has also been described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 901 621 column 2 which patent is incorporated herein by this reference.

There is a need therefore for a system such as an electromagnetic launch system to accelerate a projectile to the required speed over moderate lengths compatible with mine dimensions and mine operations and cause pulverization of rock with the projectile.

The apparatus of the present invention is a trapped field superconducting secondary magnet mounted on a movable car following a track a wire wound series of primary magnets mounted on the track and the complete magnet track system mounted on a vehicle used for movement of the pulverizer through a mine and for momentum transfer during launch of the rock breaking projectile The method of the present invention accelerates a projectile via a superconducting linear motor and directs the projectile at high speed toward a rock structure that is to be pulverized by collision of the speeding projectile with the rock structure.

The inventor has found that a rock pulverizing system can be constructed including a rail system having a car adapted to move along the rail system via magnetic forces produced by primary winding in the rail system and a trapped field magnet in the car. The rail system also includes a car breaking or deceleration system which stops the car after its is accelerated via magnetic attraction between successively activated primary winding and the trapped field magnet in the car. The car supports a projectile which can be retrievable or expendable and which is ejected from the car when the car is decelerated by the deceleration system. The deceleration or breaking occurs in such as way that the project is dispelled from the car with sufficient momentum to pulverize a target earth rock formation. If the projectile is retrievable then after the project is ejected and impinges on the target the projectile is retrieved and repositioned on the car. The car is then return to its start position so that the car can again be accelerated down the track and decelerate ejecting the projectile at a new target. If the projectile is expendable then the car is repositioned and a new expendable projectile is loaded onto the car so that the car can again be accelerated down the track and decelerate ejecting the projectile at a new target.

The superconducting rock pulverizer presented here uses a superconducting linear motor containing monolithic YBaCuOtrapped field superconducting magnet as the moving secondary magnet of the linear motor and a series of wire wound primary magnets located along a track on which the secondary superconducting magnet travels.

The secondary magnet is formed preferably from high temperature superconducting YBaCuOelements. It can also be formed from other bulk or thin film superconducting materials including BiSrCaCuO ThSrCaCuO HgSrCaCuO MgB TiNb or other high temperature or low temperature superconducting material. To form the superconducting secondary magnet the superconductors are cooled to below their critical temperature Tc while in a magnetic field of appropriate magnitude for the rock pulverizer. Thus the superconductors capture the magnetic flux and become magnets. They remain magnets as long as they are kept at a temperature below Tc. For the high temperature superconductor YBaCuOit is preferable to cool with liquid nitrogen the boiling point of which 77K is well below the critical temperature of 91K. Cooling can also be accomplished by various cryocooler means. The superconducting elements comprising the secondary magnet can be stacked so as to maximize force applied to the secondary by the primary magnet. The size and shape of the secondary magnet elements are tailored for the required final velocity and mass of the projectile under acceleration over the desired lengths of the linear motor track often as defined by the design parameters of the mine . The mass of the projectiles can range from about 50 kg to 2000 kg or more. The secondary superconducting magnet is attached to a car that moves on the track formed by the primary coil magnets.

The primary coil magnets are linearly stacked and are energized as the secondary magnet approaches and are de energized when the secondary magnet passes. The primary coil magnets can be energized with current by direct contact through brushes on the secondary magnet car or via a contact less mode. The primary coils or electromagnets can be made of wire comprised of copper aluminum or other metallic materials or superconducting materials or mixture or combinations thereof. The superconducting wire can be of high temperature superconductors such as YBaCuO BiSrCaCuO ThSrCaCuO HgSrCaCuO or other high temperature superconductors or of other superconductors such as MgBor TiNb or mixtures or combinations thereof. Higher operating temperature wire can be more beneficial as costs of insulation and heat loss are reduced.

The superconducting linear motor has a track length along which the secondary travels that is defined by the critical transit dimensions of the mine and by the required force and resultant acceleration and final velocity applied by the secondary magnet to the projectile over the length of the primary coil and track system. The superconducting secondary magnet is attached to a car that follows the primary track and had accommodations for brush contact or non contact energizing of the primary coil sections as the car passes. The car holds the projectile and projectile retrieve system for tethered projectiles. The car rides on the track with sliding or bearing contact or has the possibility of being levitated above the track through the application of additional superconducting or non superconducting magnets.

The primary coil magnets along with the secondary magnet and car comprising the superconducting pulverizer are attached to a vehicle such as a standard mine scoop or a specifically built mule vehicle that is able to manipulate move the pulverizer to wherever it is needed in the mine to allow for connection of electrical power to energize the pulverizer and to provide the inertia for momentum transfer to effectively operate the pulverizer. The momentum of the projectile upon release is projected for a 500 kg projectile 45 m sec to be 22 500 kgm sec. To minimize recoil of the pulverizer system attached to the vehicle the mass of the vehicle is projected to be greater than 5 000 kg. Resulting recoil of the vehicle and pulverizer is then less than 4.5 m sec and can be accommodated by vehicle braking anchoring the vehicle to the mine floor walls through springs or other confinement techniques.

Referring now to an embodiment of a superconducting electromagnetic projectile acceleration apparatus generally of this invention is shown to include a power supply component a track component and a projectile car component .

The power supply component includes a current in cable and a current out cable . The two cables and are connected to a DC power supply . The track component includes a left side rail a right side rail and a central rail component . The left side rail and right side rail include central support members and a plurality of conductive members mounted on the support members . The conductive members include vertical sections a horizontal section having top rail contacts and L shaped feet having bottom rail contacts . The conductive members are all interconnected by the laterally extending conductive feet . The left side rail is connected to the current in cable at the left rail contacts disposed in bottom surfaces of the feet while the right side rail is connected to the current out cable at right rail contacts disposed in bottom surfaces of the feet

The central rail component includes a current in rail having a current in bottom contact disposed in a bottom surface of a current in foot and a current in top contact disposed in its top current in rail surface . The central component also includes a current out rail having a current out bottom contact disposed in a bottom surface of a current out foot and a current out top contact disposed in its top current out rail surface . The current in bottom contact is connected to the current in cable while the current out bottom contact is connected to the current out cable .

The car component includes a projectile holder mounted on a car body . The car body includes a superconducting trapped field magnet mounted laterally in an interior of the body near its proximal end . The body includes two current rail grooves disposed in a bottom surface of the body having car bottom contacts disposed in groove top surfaces . The grooves are adapted to engage the current in rail and the current out rail of the track component respectively so that the car bottom contacts are brought into electrical contact or into electrical communication with the corresponding contacts of the central rail component of the track component . The car component also includes two rail engaging U shaped members including car top contacts . The U shaped member are adapted to surround and engage an upper section of the rails respectively so that the car top contacts are brought into electrical contact or into electrical communication with the top rail contacts of the rails . The body also include a cryocooler adapted to maintain the superconducting trapped field magnet at or below it critical transition temperature T. The top car contact is connected to the bottom car contact via a wire while the top car contact is connected to the bottom car contact via a wire

Referring now to another embodiment of a superconducting electromagnetic projectile acceleration apparatus generally of this invention is shown to include a power supply component a track component and a projectile car component . In this embodiment the car body includes two superconducting trapped field magnets mounted laterally in the interior of the car body one near its proximal end and one near its distal end . Each magnet is contained within a separate cryocooler but the cryocooler can be combined into a single cryocooler. Unlike the embodiment of the feet are non conductive. Instead each conductive member is connected to the appropriate electrical cable or as shown so that they can be separately controlled. Although two superconducting trapped field magnets are disclosed herein the car can have a higher number of superconducting trapped field magnets with accompanying contacts limited only by the size of the car and the amount of acceleration to be imparted to the car. Generally the upper limit will be less than 10 superconducting trapped field magnets.

Referring now to another embodiment of a superconducting electromagnetic projectile acceleration apparatus generally of this invention is shown to include a power supply component a track component and a projectile car component . In this embodiment the car body includes two superconducting trapped field magnets mounted laterally in the interior of the car body one near its proximal end and one near its distal end . Each magnet is contained within a separate cryocooler but the cryocooler can be combined into a single cryocooler. The track component includes isolated conductive members and . The car contacts are designed so that the magnets are pushed by conductive members behind of the magnets and pulled by conductive members in front of the magnets. The push pull configuration is controlled by the current direction flowing through the conductive members. In such a configuration alternating conductive members on each rail and have current flowing in the opposite direction. Moreover the two tracks are do not have the same current flow pattern but one is one member offset so that the magnetic fields generated by the flowing current push and pull in unison. Although two superconducting trapped field magnets are disclosed herein the car can have a single superconducting trapped field magnet or a higher number of superconducting trapped field magnets with accompanying contacts limited only by the size of the car and the amount of acceleration to be imparted to the car. Generally the upper limit will be less than 10 superconducting trapped field magnets.

Referring now to another superconducting electromagnetic rock pulverizer track system includes a dual rail track component having a left side rail and a right side rail each rail including a plurality of primary coil magnet windings a superconducting trapped field magnet which is mounted in an interior of a car riding on the primary magnet rails . The field magnet is enclosed in a thermally insulated cryocooler which can be a contained filled with liquid nitrogen or other cryogenic fluid for keeping the superconducting magnet at a temperature below its critical temperature. For example if the superconducting field magnet comprises YBCO then the liquid is liquid nitrogen 77K. The cryocooler can also be a cryocooler system to keep the superconducting magnet below its critical temperature. The car moves on the track component either on lubricated slides or on bearings or any other mechanism for reducing friction as one surface move on other surface. The system also includes a power supply not shown to which are connected a current in cable and a current out cable . The current in cable is connected to current in contacts brushes or leads on the car and the current out cable is connected to current out contacts brushes or leads on the car . The current in contacts and the current out contacts are configured on the car so that the windings are charged through contacts or leads on the windings as the car travels down the track component . The car and the track component are configured so that windings are charged by the leads and so that the charged windings push and pull against the field magnet in the car accelerating the car from the first windings to the last windings. The car of is designed so that four windings push and four winding pull the trapped field magnet. The car also includes a projectile holder into which projectiles are placed and ejected from the holder when the car is stopped suddenly at a distal end of the track system. The car included two U shaped rail engaging members . The member engaged the rails via a lubricated slid or bearings . Brushless non contact system can also be used to energize of the windings as the car moves down the track. It should be recognized that the car can include numerous different contact patterns. For example the car contacts can be configured so that only a single pair on windings push the car only a single pair of winding pull the car a single pair of windings push and a single pair pull a plurality of windings push a plurality of winding pull or a plurality of windings pull and a plurality of winding push. The car can also be configured with one or more field magnets and any arrangement on contacts to charge the windings needed to accelerate the car from a start end of the track system to the stop end of the track system.

Referring now to another superconducting electromagnetic rock pulverizer track system is shown as a cylindrical shape. The system includes a cut cylindrical track component having a left side rail and a right side rail . The system also includes a plurality of lower portions of primary windings . The lower portions of the windings are designed to be brought into electrical contact or communication with four upper portions of the windings disposed in a car component . The lower portions and the upper portions of the winding are brought into electrical communication as the car component travels down the track component via track contacts leads or bushes and car contacts or leads . The car component also includes three superconducting trapped field magnets The windings are closed by the contacts and and generate magnetic fields that push and pull the magnets when power is supplied to the four completed windings . The magnets are disposed in an interior and contained within a cryocooler .

Referring now to another superconducting electromagnetic rock pulverizer track system is shown as a monorail. The system includes a monorail track component . The system also includes a plurality of primary windings contained in an upper portion of the monorail . Each winding includes a current in lead connected to a current in cable and a current out lead connected to a current out cable . The system also includes a car component mounted on the monorail and riding on bearings or lubricated slides . The car includes four superconducting trapped field magnets contained in cryocoolers . The windings are energized by a control system located on a vehicle used to maneuver the system adjacent a surface to be pulverized. Thus the car is accelerated down the track via a controlled turning on and off windings as the car moves down the track . Mounted on a top of the car is a projectile holder holding a projectile . When the car is rapidly decelerated as shown in the projectile is ejected from the holder and impinges on the surface.

Referring now to two embodiments of a pulverizing vehicle apparatus generally are shown to include the track system but track system or can be used as well is mounted at its proximal end on a vehicle for movement and positioning of the track system to a desired location for example the vehicle can be a vehicle used in a mine so that the track system can be positioned adjacent a surface to be pulverized. The vehicle also includes command and control equipment for the track system and a power supply for supplying electrical energy to the track system via current in and current out cables and respectively. The vehicle can be a standard mine scoop modified to accept the track systems or a specifically designed and built mule vehicle.

The track system is attached to the vehicle via a hydraulic system including a hydraulic reservoir pump unit a track raising lowering unit and a hydraulically adjustable wheel assembly having a wheel and a hydraulic lift unit positioned near a distal end of the apparatus as shown in . The pump unit is connected to the track raising lowering unit and the lift unit via hydraulic lines . The hydraulic system is adapted to raise or lower the track system or to move the track system from side to side so that the distal end of the apparatus can be positioned adjacent a projectile target surface.

The vehicle also supports blast shields and to protect the operator and the components of the track system respectively. The vehicle also contains an electrical energy storage system which activates the primary windings or conductive elements of the track system via the current in and out cables and . The apparatus can use capacitors flywheels batteries superconducting magnetic energy storage or other energy storage devices not shown connected to the system via umbilical . The vehicle can also contain a separate electrical energy source for energizing the primary coil circuits. This source could be a generator fuel cell or other electrical generation system not shown.

The apparatus also includes a mechanized reel mechanism having a reel and a control cable wound onto the reel with a cable s distal end attached to the car system as shown in . The mechanism is adapted to pay out the cable as the car system is accelerated down the track component and to reel in of the car back to the proximal end of the track system after a projectile contained within the car holder is released. The blast shield is shown in a front view in to have an opening therein to permit the projectile to be ejected through the shield .

The apparatus also includes a deceleration system disposed at its distal end and attached to a distal end of the track system . The deceleration system can include electromagnetic windings not shown that can be energized to slow down and stop the car component of the track system . The deceleration system can also be a shock in spring deceleration system as shown in . The shock in spring deceleration system includes a plurality of spring units which can be traditional springs or shock absorbers including springs and or air springs. The deceleration system can also be an air compressions unit including a piston moving in a cylinder where compressing air provided the deceleration necessary to stop the car and eject the projectile . The deceleration system can also be of varying design from the shock in spring design. The deceleration system includes a contact plate that can be a rubberized pad to assist in shock reduction of the car system upon contact with the deceleration plate as shown in . The deceleration plate can be supported on slide bearings moving on rods attached to the track system.

The projectile is carried in the holder attached to the car system . The holer can includes a cable reel system not shown for use with tethered projectiles. The cable reel system for tethered projectiles is adapted to be mounted on the distal end of the apparatus so that the tethered projectiles can be retrieved after ejection and reused. If a rock is used then the tethering can be to a wire mesh holding the rock but generally for dispensable projectiles such as rock no tethering system is needed. Although several stopping and rewind system have been disclosed the car itself as mentioned previously can have on board braking systems that will brake the car once it has progressed a given distance down the track. The car can also be retracted by simply reversing the current path. This will push pull the car from the distal end of the track to the proximal end of the track. The current flow can then be reversed for acceleration of the car down the track. If magnetic force is used to restore the car to its start position then a boost unit can be positioned at the distal end of the track to start the car on its return to the start position.

The apparatus can also include a car boost unit designed to push the car to start it in motion before or simultaneous with electromagnetic activation. The boost unit can be a hydraulic ram unit air ram unit a compressed spring or other acceleration boost device that includes a push member that is thrust out from the unit pushing the car in to motion. The boost unit can an air or hydraulic ram a compressed spring or other acceleration device

The operation of the superconducting electromagnetic rock pulverizing system is as follows. The projectile either tethered or un tethered is loaded onto the projectile holder attached to the car system located on the track component positioned at the proximal end of the track component . The superconducting trapped field magnet which is at or below is critical temperature T is magnetized if it is not already magnetized. There is also the possibility not shown of using a permanent magnet in place of the superconducting magnet especially in the cases where lower mass projectiles are to be used.

The vehicle is connected to the mine electrical power system through umbilicals or contains its own power generating system and the electrical energy storage system on the vehicle is energized. The vehicle is moved to place the projectile ejection end of the apparatus adjacent a surface to be pulverized. Exact placement of the track end will be defined by trained operators. Fine positioning of the end of the track can be accomplished through the hydraulic system .

Once the area around the pulverizer system is cleared of personnel other than the system operators who are behind protective blast shields and on the vehicle the primary magnet windings are energized generating magnetic fields the act on the superconducting field magnet . This causes the car system to move down the track accelerating every time a new set of primary windings are energized by the brush or brushless contacts on the car . This acceleration continues down the length of the track with the car system supporting the projectile reaching a design velocity nominally 45 m sec for a 500 kg projectile at the end of the nominally 10 m long track. The last 1 m of the track is a deceleration section where the car system is decelerated and the projectile is ejected from the support basket attached to the car . The deceleration of the car can be accomplished by a passive spring over shock system or by electromagnetic deceleration from reverse current applied to primary coils located at the last 1 m of track or by a combination of both systems.

The ejection of the projectile from the car basket when the car system reaches the distal end of the track is followed by reel out of the projectile tether for tethered projectiles. After collision of the projectile with the rock the tether is used to reel the projectile back onto the car basket . The car system along with the tethered projectile is then reeled back to the vehicle end of the track in preparation for the next pulverizing event.

Blast shields and are strategically mounted near the end of the track to protect the track and secondary magnet car system as well as any primary magnet windings from shrapnel from flying rock.

The vehicle can include a DC power supply and necessary control systems to allow the operator to turn on the power supply once the apparatus is properly positioned. The control system can also be used to change the current being delivered to the conductive members of the track. Thus the current can start off at just the current necessary to start the car moving and increased to increase the acceleration being imparted to the car. Of course the current density must be kept below the maximum current of the cables and the maximum current capable of being tolerated by the conductive members.

The apparatus operates by pulling the car to the proximal end of the track component. Next one or more projectiles are placed on the projectile holder. The car is then accelerated by turning on the DC power supply so that current flows through the feet to the conductive member activated by the car contacts. The current flowing through the conductive members generates a magnetic field that pushes against the superconducting trapped field magnet. Each subsequently activated conductive member continues the acceleration down the track on the rails. The power supply can be adjustable so that the current density is increased as the car moves down the track. At the end of the track the car is stopped by a breaking system that is generally biased. The stopping is sudden enough to propel the projectiles from the projectile holder at a surface or into a surface of a structure or formation to breakup or pulverize a portion of the surface contacted by the expelled projectiles. The projectiles can be stones or rocks or can be special projectiles designed to more effectively penetrate breakup or pulverize the surface. The projectiles can be explosively charged. The projectiles can be shaped to spin once be expelled from the holder.

All references cited herein are incorporated by reference. Although the invention has been disclosed with reference to its preferred embodiments from reading this description those of skill in the art may appreciate changes and modification that may be made which do not depart from the scope and spirit of the invention as described above and claimed hereafter.

