---

title: Process for nickel silicide Ohmic contacts to n-SiC
abstract: A NiSi-nSiC Ohmic contact is formed by pulsed laser ablation deposition (PLD) of NiSi source target deposited on a n-SiC substrate or SiC substrate wafer with SiC epilayer. The NiSi Ohmic contact on n-SiC was rapid thermal annealed at 950° C. for 30 s in a Nambient. The resultant Ohmic contact is characterized by excellent current-voltage (I-V) characteristics, an abrupt void free contact-SiC interface, retention of the PLD as-deposited contact layer width, smooth surface morphology, and absence of residual carbon within the contact layer or at the interface. The detrimental effects of contact delamination due to stress associated with interfacial voiding; and wire bond failure, non-uniformity of current flow and SiC polytype alteration due to extreme surface roughness; have been eliminated as has electrical instability associated with carbon inclusions at the contact-SiC interface, after prolonged high temperature and power device operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07297626&OS=07297626&RS=07297626
owner: United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07297626
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060217
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 884 580 filed Jul. 6 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 163 882 which was a Division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 939 420 filed Aug. 27 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 759 683.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The invention relates to a semiconductor device manufacturing process. More particularly the invention is a process for forming an Ohmic contact on a wide bandgap semiconductor material SiC . More particularly the invention is a process for forming a nickel silicide NiSi Ohmic contact to n type SiC.

The invention relates to the technology of manufacturing a SiC based semiconductor device. All semiconductor devices require high quality low resistivity thermally stable reliable n and p type Ohmic contacts. Ohmic contacts are essential for the transfer of signals between the SiC device and the external circuitry. Ohmic contact metallization design selection and method of deposition heavily influence the electrical and physical properties of Ohmic contacts to all semiconductors. There are many metallization designs however the most common used in SiC device technology consists of single layer bilayer multilayer composite metallization schemes and compound intermetallics. Low resistance Ohmic contacts to n type SiC can be obtained by depositing metallizations with appropriate work functions to achieve a barrier height reduction at the metal SiC interface. The barrier heights of various contacts depend on the surface properties and electron affinity of the semiconductor and the work function of the metal. For SiC barrier heights do not follow the Schottky Mott theory and are typically constrained to high values. In practice the degree of dependence of barrier height on choice of metal has been determined to be dependent on the bulk semiconductor properties the nature of the surface before contact formation and the interfacial chemistry. At practical SiC interfaces interface states cause Fermi level pinning which results in the formation of a potential barrier. The interface states affect the charge transfer between the metal and the SiC hence control the Schottky barrier height.

Metal deposition can be achieved by a variety of methods the most common being electron beam e beam evaporation sputtering and thermal evaporation. Sputtering and e beam evaporation is preferred over thermal evaporation for Ohmic contact metal deposition. The reason for this centers on the fact that thermal evaporation methods involve either a resistance heated source refractory metal coiled into a filament or an evaporation source that is heated by rf induction utilizing a BN crucible which results in contamination of the charge from the heater or crucible. This contamination leads to unwanted impurities which adversely affect the electrical properties of the condensed Ohmic contact metal film. The method of metal deposition heavily influences the grain size uniformity and metal epilayer interface properties of the condensed contact film. Grain boundaries serves as diffusion pathways thus minimization of grain boundary area is desirable to control unwanted elemental diffusion. For the same metal deposited by sputtering and e beam evaporation the e beam evaporated films will possess a much larger grain size which translates to less grain boundary area and lower diffusion pathways. Additionally larger grain metal films possess higher hardness values which influence the overall mechanical durability of the metal film. E beam evaporated metal films also have less gas incorporation in the condensed films than sputtered metal films and as a result have a higher level of film purity. However the film substrate adhesion is usually enhanced for sputtered films since the condensing atoms have higher energy with respect to e beam deposited films. Both e beam and sputter deposition produce large area uniform films. The method of metal deposition is often determined by the choice of metal to be deposited for example since refractory metals are not easily deposited via e beam evaporation sputter deposition is preferred. Additionally the metal deposition method is usually a strong function of equipment availability.

Deposition of an intermetallic Ohmic contact such as XY can be accomplished by sequential e beam evaporation of each component layer X and Y separately with the correct thickness so as to achieve the correct stoichiometric ratio of 2X 1Y followed by a post metal deposition annealing step to achieve the uniform intermetallic phase XY. Alternatively the intermetallic phase XY can be produced by the sequential co sputtering of two source targets target 1 is composition X and target 2 is composition Y such that two layers X and Y are deposited with the proper thickness and post metal deposition annealed in order to achieve the uniform intermetallic phase XY with the correct stoichiometric composition 2X 1Y. A single compound target with composition XY can also be sputter deposited onto the SiC substrate or SiC substrate with SiC epilayer however the proper 2X 1Y stoichiometry is not easily achieved via this deposition technique. The physical vapor deposition technique pulsed laser ablation deposition PLD has been extensively employed for the preparation deposition of high quality thin films of multi component metal oxide ceramics. The principle desirable feature of PLD is that it is a non equilibrium evaporation process which produces an intense plasma plume and transfers the target composition stoichiometry particularly metallic constituents in the multi component systems into the deposited film on a substrate. Thus PLD is an excellent method for depositing an intermetallic phase XY NiSi onto a substrate n SiC or SiC substrate with SiC epilayer where precise stoichiometric composition is necessary to achieve a highly conductive low resistivity metal film for Ohmic contact formation such as NiSi n SiC .

Post metal deposition annealing is usually required to achieve Ohmic behavior in the deposited metal films on SiC. Annealing of metal contact SiC structures has been achieved via conventional furnace annealing CFA and rapid thermal annealing RTA . The choice of ambient annealing gas influences the electrical properties of Ohmic contact significantly. For CFA the ambient atmosphere can range from vacuum annealing where metal oxidation is an issue to flowing N Ar and forming gas. The most common RTA ambient gases are N Ar and forming gas. CFA requires longer processing times with respect to RTA and thus often enhances unwanted elemental diffusion. For annealing some contact metals to SiC the thermally induced interfacial reactions which are responsible for Ohmic behavior demand narrow time temperature process windows thus favoring rapid thermal processing. Specifically RTA is a fast thermal processing method 1 100 sec which provides the advantages of a reduced thermal budget anneal temperature anneal time and b rapid heating and cooling rates in the range of 30 500 C. sec. These advantages are critical to the formation of good Ohmic contacts since the desired interfacial phase formation usually occurs at some temperature T for a time t after which the processing temperature can be reduced rapidly by as much as 50 C. in 1 sec. Thus undesired contact metal SiC phase formation phenomena having different activation energy than the desired contact metal SiC phase formation are almost completely suppressed since only a fraction of a second would be available for the undesirable process or phase formation. The most common annealing method for SiC contact technology is RTA but again like metal deposition methods the annealing mode is often a function of equipment availability.

Optimum contact performance is not only influenced by the material processing and design elements described above but also relies on strict adherence to a set of fundamental contact semiconductor requirements. Currently there are several critical requirements for Ohmic contacts which must be satisfied in order to achieve high performance reliable SiC based devices. The most prominent of these is the attainment of a reproducible low specific contact resistance value. Additionally the Ohmic contact must not significantly perturb device performance. In other words the contact must supply the required current density with a voltage drop that is significantly small compared with the drop across the active region of the device. The contact must also possess good mechanical properties that is good metal adhesion during formation subsequent processing and in service device operation. The metallization must not cause excessive stress in the underlying semiconductor since this can result in alteration of electronic characteristics. The Ohmic contact must be temporally and thermally stable. Additionally the Ohmic contact must be environmentally stable under prolonged bias temperature stress humidity and reactive ambient conditions. The contact metal semiconductor interface must be uniform shallow and abrupt. In the case of alloyed contacts the metal semiconductor interface phase s must be laterally homogenous. This uniformity of metal semiconductor interfacial reactions serves to minimize the spread in contact resistance values suppress current nonuniformity and improve device reliability. The metallization must have a smooth surface morphology which is critical for device wire bonding. Fabrication of the Ohmic contacts must be controllable and reproducible that is reactions and other properties which govern the contact resistance must be reproducible and the contact fabrication must be compatible with semiconductor processing. Finally the drive towards lower contact processing temperatures should be adhered to whenever possible. This is critical for device integration issues namely integration of materials with differing thermal stability within a single device heterostructures and or integration of several devices composed of different materials on a common substrate.

A nickel silicide NiSi Ohmic contact is formed on n type silicon carbide n SiC semiconductor substrate or n SiC substrate with SiC epilayer by means of a pulsed laser ablation deposition process.

A SiC substrate or n SiC substrate with SiC epilayer is optionally masked to expose the required deposition area s . The SiC substrate or n SiC substrate with SiC epilayer is mounted in a vacuum chamber preferred base pressure of 

A laser beam is focused onto the rotating source target with a 45 incident angle. The source target NiSi is then ablated by a laser beam preferred laser fluence 10 Jcm to produce a NiSi plume that is the deposited on the SiC substrate or n SiC substrate with SiC epilayer substrate is not heated . The preferred amount is a 200 400 nanometer thick NiSi layer on the SiC substrate or n SiC substrate with SiC epilayer.

The result is a NiSi Ohmic contact having the same stoichiometric composition as the source target. In order to dissolve the native oxide which is present at the interface between the NiSi contact metallization and the SiC substrate or n SiC substrate with SiC epilayer a post deposition anneal at 950 C. for 30 s via rapid thermal annealing RTA is performed in a Nambient. Thus the NiSi SiC Ohmic contact is formed.

SiC is an excellent candidate for high temperature and high power device applications because of its combination of electronic and thermal properties namely wide energy bandgap high electric breakdown field large saturated electron drift velocity and high thermal conductivity. Based on these properties devices fabricated from SiC promise superior performance to that of present day devices. Rapid advances in the growth doping and processing of SiC have led to the realization of several electronic and photonic devices including fast recovery high voltage diodes metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors MOSFETs metal semiconductor field effect transistors MESFETs static induction transistors SITs junction field effect transistors JFETs UV photodiodes and SiC bipolar devices bipolar junction transistors BJTs and hybrid bipolar transistors HBTs . The wide bandgap and high thermal conductivity are attractive for high temperature digital integrated circuits and nonvolatile solid state memories. Although progress with SiC based electronic devices has been encouraging there are significant challenges to overcome in the development of physically chemically and electrically stable and reliable multilevel metallization technology capable of high packing density. An important requirement of all device technologies is the development of electrical contacts with low specific contact resistance and high stability and long term reliability. Ohmic contacts with low specific contact resistance and good thermal stability are necessary to obtain optimum performance from high temperature high power and high frequency devices. As the device dimensions continue to decrease much more stringent requirements are being placed on the material processing and electrical performance of low resistance Ohmic contacts. Metallization of wide bandgap semiconductors SiC is complicated particularly because of their high surface reactivity low doping concentrations and high density of interface states.

Nickel Ohmic contacts are deemed the industry standard contacts for SiC devices. Nickel Ohmic contacts to n SiC possess a low specific contact resistance less than 5.0 10 cm and good physical thermal stability at temperatures up to 500 C. for 100 h. In addition from the point of electrical integrity nickel Ohmic contacts to n SiC are reproducible.

It is known that Ni nSiC Ohmic contacts are formed by depositing pure metallic nickel on the n SiC substrate or n SiC substrate with SiC epilayer. This intermediate Ni SiC is then furnace annealed at temperatures of about 950 C. for 2 to 5 minutes or rapid thermal annealed RTA at temperatures of about 950 to 1000 C. for 30 s 60 s. Annealing results in the formation of the intermetallic phase Ni silicide NSi overlying the SiC substrate or n SiC substrate with SiC epilayer material. The resulting Ohmic contact composition is represented by the chemical formula NiSi SiC. Formation of NiSi by annealing Ni SiC at 950 C. to 1000 C. has been reported to cause a lower resistance of the initial Ni SiC contact. Therefore it is actually this NiSi SiC composition and not pure Ni intermediate contact that displays the low specific contact resistance reported above.

It has been reported that the high temperature annealing process used to form this NiSi SiC Ohmic contacts results in several undesirable features which cause device reliability issues and ultimate device failure. These features include 

Substantial broadening of the contact layer thickness or metal SiC interface expansion. The increase in contact thickness via consumption of the SiC substrate or n SiC substrate with SiC epilayer is due to the high reactivity of Ni with Si to form Ni silicide leaving behind both voids and unreacted carbon. Annealing the Ni SiC contact results in a contact thickness increase of 100 . Such an increase in contact thickness makes the annealed Ni SiC Ohmic contact not useable for device designs which posses shallow p n junctions.

A rough interface morphology heavily laden with Kirkendall voids. The voids resulting from the high reactivity of Ni with Si at the interface will cause internal stress and possible delamination of the contact layer which will compromise device reliability. The internal stress and contact delamination will be significantly amplified under the extreme thermal and electrical stresses typical of the power device operational environment and will ultimately result in device failure. The rough interface morphology makes the annealed Ni SiC Ohmic contact not useable for device designs which posses shallow p n junctions. Thus loss of a sharp interface will compromise device designs which possess shallow p n junctions.

Carbon segregation at the metal SiC interface and or throughout the metal layer. It is known via x ray photoelectron spectroscopy XPS analyses of the annealed contact that carbon is in the graphite state and that Si is bonded predominantly to Ni resulting in Ni silicide formation. Dissociation of SiC to Si and C in the presence of Ni atoms is possible at temperatures above 400 C. Thus the dissociation of SiC at the Ni SiC interface to Si and C is due to the reactivity of Ni. Carbon inclusions at the metal SiC interface and or within the contact layer are considered a potential source of electrical instability especially after prolonged operation of the devices at high temperatures. At elevated temperatures redistribution of carbon inclusions will arise resulting in significant degradation of the contact s electrical and microstructural properties.

Substantial roughening of the contact surface on the order of tens of nanometers . For many device applications Ohmic contacts must be wire bonded to a die package. A rough surface morphology will most likely cause wire bonding difficulty and or failure under the extreme thermal fatigue during high power and high temperature device operation. Additionally rough surface morphology is not desirable for high current applications because it causes non uniformity of current flow. In addition contact surface roughness results in residual material stresses that may induce SiC polytype changes. Alteration of the SiC polytype also alters the electrical properties. For example a polytype change from 4H to 6H degrades the electron mobility of the SiC and degrades the device.

Therefore even though Ni contacts possess excellent electrical properties the above mentioned features will lead to device reliability problems and ultimately cause device failure via contact degradation and or wire bond failure after exposure to long term high power and high temperature device operational stresses. displays a cross sectional view schematic of the e beam as deposited Ni nSiC Ohmic contact. A cross sectional view scanning electron microscopy SEM micrograph showing the above mentioned undesirable features residual carbon void formation rough surface morphology and and extreme contact broadening or interface broadening of the 950 C. annealed Ni SiC is displayed in . From the data in the inventor constructed a schematic diagram displayed in of the cross sectional view of the annealed Ni nSiC Ohmic contact highlighting the above mentioned undesirable features.

All of the above mentioned phenomena have led the inventors to seek a method of forming a NiSi nSiC Ohmic contact in the absence of the undesirable phenomena residual carbon void formation rough surface morphology and extreme contact broadening or interface broadening associated with the annealing of pure Ni nSiC Ohmic contacts. The inventors have fabricated an improved Ohmic contact to n SiC via direct deposition of the intermetallic phase NiSi known to be in thermodynamic equilibrium with SiC at high temperatures 900 1000 C. .

The NiSi 400 nm metallization was deposited via pulse laser ablation deposition PLD on select grade Si face 8 off c axis 0001 4H n type 2.0 10cm SiC wafers. Prior to metal deposition the wafers were cleaned in warm electronic grade trichoroethane TCA acetone and methanol followed by a rinse in deionized water. The NiSi metallization was pulse laser ablated from a NiSi 99.9 pure source target under a base vacuum of less than 1.0 10Torr using a Lambda Physik Complex excimer laser KrF 248 nanometer laser . Depositions were performed with the laser beam focused through focusing lens onto the rotating target at a 45 incident angle. The sample target separation distance was 10 cm and the laser fluence was 10 Jcmwith a repetition rate of 50 Hz. The NiSi films were deposited on to an unheated SiC wafer substrate or n SiC substrate with SiC epilayer also . A schematic of the deposition system and processing parameters is displayed in thru . The target rotation motor rotates the target causing ablation plume which is deposited on sample which is mounted on sample holder . The process can be observed through viewing window .

This process is shown in greater detail by a flow diagram showing the individual steps to the deposition annealing process in . Step An n type SiC wafer substrate is mounted in a vacuum chamber in a sample substrate position on sample holder . Step a NiSi source target is mounted in the vacuum chamber separated from the n type SiC wafer by a sample target gap preferably about 10 cm. Step the NiSi source target is rotated. Step the NiSi source target is ablated by the use of a laser beam producing an intermetallic phase plasma plume . Step the intermetallic phase plasma plume is transferred to the n type SiC wafer substrate . Step the intermetallic phase NiSi plume is deposited as shown in as an NiSi film on the n type SiC substrate to form an NiSi n type SiC Ohmic contact. Step the NiSi n type SiC Ohmic contact undergoes rapid thermal annealing in Nambient for 30 s at 950 C.

Subsequent to deposition the NiSi SiC samples were rapid thermally annealed RTA in an AG Associates RTA for 30 sec at 700 C. and 950 C. Material characterization was performed on the PLD as deposited and annealed samples. The contacts electrical quality was evaluated via current voltage characteristics using a HP 4140B semiconductor test system. The contacts composition thickness and interface quality was determined via Rutherford backscattering spectroscopy RBS analysis with a NEC Pelletron accelerator using a 2 MeV He ion beam with a scattering angle of 170 and a solid angle of 5.5 msr. Simulations were produced using the computer code RUMP. The contact structure was analyzed by glancing angle x ray diffraction GAXRD with a Siemens D 5005 powder diffractometer using Cu K radiation at 50 kV and 40 mA. Auger electron spectroscopy AES was employed to assess elemental distribution within the contact and across the contact SiC interface. AES analyses were obtained using a Perkin Elmer PH1660 scanning Auger microprobe. A Hitachi S4500 field emission scanning electron microscopy FESEM was utilized to assess the contact surface morphology contact SiC interface uniformity and film microstructure. DI Tapping mode atomic force microscopy AFM was used to quantify the contacts surface roughness.

The electrical structural compositional and interfacial properties of the PLD NiSi Ohmic contacts to n SiC have been investigated as a function of annealing temperature. The I V characteristics of the PLD as deposited and annealed contacts to n SiC are displayed in . The as deposited sample exhibited non Ohmic behavior suggestive of a large barrier height. Annealing at 700 C. caused no improvement in the I V characteristics. However annealing at 950 C. resulted in excellent Ohmic behavior as demonstrated by the I V characteristics which possess linear characteristics with small resistance and is symmetric with reversal of voltage polarity. Thus annealing at 950 C. significantly enhanced the current conduction through the contacts. The fact that a thermal anneal was required to achieve good Ohmic behavior suggests that some minute reaction must have occurred. Such as interfacial reaction may have eliminated some interfacial contaminants e.g. thin oxide layer thereby releasing Fermi level pinning and inducing Ohmic behavior.

In order to assess and understand the contacts electrical characteristics RBS GAXRD AES and FESEM analyses were performed on the PLD as deposited and annealed contacts. The RBS spectra for the NiSi SiC contacts are displayed in . The surface energies of the film elements are marked by arrows. The high energy edge of the Si signal from the SiC substrate is shifted to lower energies with respect to that of the Si in the NiSi film because the detected particles that are backscattered there lose energy in the overlying film. From the energy width of the Ni signal the contact thickness was determined to be 400 nm. The width of the Ni signal is the same for the as deposited and 700 C. annealed sample however the 950 C. sample is slightly thinner as indicated by the higher energy position of the back edge of the Ni signal and front edge of the Si signal in SiC. The thinner film 950 C. sample is due to non uniformity of the PLD process. Slight variations in film thickness across a PLD deposited film are inherent to the deposition technique since PLD maintains uniformity on a scale of 1 1 cm. However since Ohmic contact dimensions are on the scale of 10 s to 100 s of microns this non uniformity of 1 1 cmis negligible and does not pose an issue for device manufacture. The fact that the back edge of the Ni signal did not shift to lower energies width of the Ni signal did not increase as a result of annealing indicates that there is no increase of the vertical dimension of the contact that is no broadening of the contact layer or interface expansion as a result of annealing. The contact SiC interface quality was assessed by comparing the slopes of the front edge of the Si signal in SiC and the back edge of the back edge of the Ni signal of the as deposited spectrum with those of the annealed spectra. The slopes of the as deposited and annealed contacts appear virtually identical indicating a minimal amount of interaction between the contact and SiC as a result of annealing required for Ohmic contact formation.

The GAXRD data for the contacts annealed at 700 C. and 950 C. confirmed the presence of the NiSi phase. The AES depth profiles for the as deposited and 950 C. annealed contacts are displayed in and . AES elemental depth profile for the PLD as deposited sample shows a very sharp interface between the contact metallization and the SiC substrate or n SiC substrate with SiC epilayer however slight oxygen enrichment is observed at the contact SiC interface. The interfacial oxygen is most likely due to lack of an oxide etch step prior to the metal deposition. The AES depth profile for the 950 C. annealed sample shows the contact SiC interface to be chemically abrupt with no interfacial oxygen present or signs of elemental interdiffusion. The high temperature 950 C. anneal appears to have caused dissolution of the interfacial oxide which in turn prompted the excellent electrical properties of this contact. The negligible level of the carbon signal within the annealed contact and at the contact SiC interface indicates that no residual carbon is present within the film or accumulated at the interface as a result of the high temperature annealing process. The absence of residual carbon within the contact metallization is extremely desirable from the standpoint of device reliability. Carbon inclusions at the metal SiC interface and or within the contact layer are considered a potential source of electrical instability especially after prolonged operation of the devices at high temperatures. At elevated temperatures redistribution of carbon inclusions will arise resulting in significant degradation of the contact s electrical and microstructural properties. Thus the direct deposition of NiSi served to eliminate carbon accumulation within the film and at the metal SiC interface.

Plan view field emission scanning electron microscopy FESEM micrographs of the as deposited and annealed contacts show the surfaces to be homogenous smooth crack and pinhole free. Quantification of the surface roughness was achieved via AFM. The average root mean square roughness values R for the PLD as deposited and 950 C. annealed contacts were 0.037 nm and 0.067 nm respectively. The extreme surface smoothness of the annealed NiSi contact promotes strong reliable wire bonding and will ensure maintenance of wire contact mechanical durability during high power and high temperature device operation. In addition a smooth surface morphology ensures current uniformity and retention of the original SiC polytype with its inherent electrical properties.

The inventors have demonstrated that excellent electrical and enhanced structural compositional and interfacial properties have been achieved by direct deposition via PLD of the intermetallic phase NiSi on n SiC.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the invention that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments of the invention have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments of the invention can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

