---

title: Backoff control for access probe transmission in communication systems
abstract: A random backoff time can be determined and the transmission of an initial access probe can be delayed for the random backoff time. A backoff interval can be determined based on channel load, wherein the backoff interval defines a range from which the random backoff time is selected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08284793&OS=08284793&RS=08284793
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08284793
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060227
---
The present invention generally relates to communication systems. More particularly the invention relates to backoff control in communication systems that use access probes.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xRTT 1x and 1xEV DO standards 1XEV for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile terminals or access terminals receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. In order to aid in providing coverage each cell is often sub divided into multiple sectors each corresponding to a smaller service area or geographic region. An array or series of base stations placed adjacent to each other form a communication system capable of servicing a number of system users over a larger region.

Typically each mobile terminal monitors a control channel that can be used to exchange messages between the mobile terminal and the base station. The control channel is used to transmit system overhead messages whereas traffic channels are typically used for substantive communication e.g. voice and data to and from the mobile terminal. For example the control channel can be used to establish traffic channels control power levels and the like as is known in the art. Generally there are two types of power control for the reverse link open loop and closed loop power control. The open loop power control typically occurs prior to the mobile terminal establishing contact with a base station. The closed loop control occurs after the mobile and the base station are in communication and the base station can measure the received power levels and feedback power level adjustments to the mobile terminal.

In the open loop condition the reverse link power for an initial communication signal e.g. access probe from the mobile terminal to the base station can be determined by monitoring specialized signals from a base station or access point. For example in CDMA systems a pilot signal can be use to estimate the channel condition and then determine a power estimate for transmitting back to the base station. The accuracy of the channel conditions and power estimation can greatly impact performance of the system particularly in terms of latency of the system. For example 1x and 1XEV systems will transmit an access probe at a first power level based on a power control algorithm. If the first access attempt does not succeed then the probe is resent at increasingly higher power levels until it is successful or the power level maximum is reached.

The existing open loop power control algorithm used to transmit access probes over the Access Channel in CDMA2000 1X A and 1xEVDO networks tend to be prone to inaccuracies and can result in underestimation of transmit power for access probes. This leads to an increased loss rate of access probes over the Access Channel particularly on the first access attempt. Accordingly errors in the determination of the power level for the first transmission can lead to a high rate of unsuccessful first access attempts which can cause increased system latency as the probes are resent. By limiting retransmissions of the access probes the latency incurred by access probes can be reduced.

Another cause of failed access attempts is collision between access probes. Collisions occur when more than one mobile terminal attempts to send an access probe on the same Access Channel in the same sector. Because of the interference cause by the competing signals the base station may not successfully receive the access probes. Accordingly collisions are another factor that can impact the latency of a communication system. To address the problem of collisions some conventional systems will generate a random backoff time to prevent collisions on subsequent retransmissions. However conventional systems do not address potential collisions with the first access probe. Accordingly system latency can also be impacted by collisions on the initial access probe attempt.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed to systems and methods for improved access probe backoff control in a communication system.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a method comprising determining a backoff interval based on channel load determining a random backoff time wherein the backoff interval defines a range from which the random backoff time is selected and delaying the transmission of an initial access probe for the random backoff time.

Another embodiment of the invention can include an apparatus comprising logic configured to determine a random backoff time logic configured to delay the transmission of an initial access probe for the random backoff time and logic configured to determine a backoff interval based on channel load wherein the backoff interval defines a range from which the random backoff time is selected.

Another embodiment of the invention can include a group communication method comprising transmitting a channel load estimate receiving the channel load estimate determining a backoff interval based on the channel load estimate determining a random backoff time wherein the backoff interval defines a range from which the random backoff time is selected and delaying the transmission of an initial access probe for the random backoff time.

Another embodiment of the invention can include a communication system comprising logic configured to transmit a channel load estimate logic configured to receive the channel load estimate logic configured to determine a backoff interval based on the channel load estimate logic configured to determine a random backoff time wherein the backoff interval defines a range from which the random backoff time is selected and logic configured to delay the transmission of an initial access probe for the random backoff time.

Another embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal comprising means for determining a backoff interval based on channel load means for determining a random backoff time wherein the backoff interval defines a range from which the random backoff time is selected and means for delaying the transmission of an initial access probe for the random backoff time.

Another embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable media embodying a method in a wireless communication system the method comprising determining a backoff interval based on channel load determining a random backoff time wherein the backoff interval defines a range from which the random backoff time is selected and delaying the transmission of an initial access probe for the random backoff time.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs base station transceivers BTS base stations BS or more generally access points. An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or mobile switching center MSC . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals. The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein generally the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Additionally although exemplary embodiments of the invention are described in terms of a wireless system and specific technologies such as CDMA 1x and 1XEV system those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention is not limited to the illustrated systems. For example embodiments of the invention can include any system that transmits an access probe from an access terminal to an access network to establish a traffic channel with the access network. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that signals transmitted over many mediums can be considered to have channel parameters and may utilize access probes to establish traffic channels. For example signals over wireline systems such as copper wire coaxial cable fiber optic cables and the like have channel parameters that can be affected by transmission modulation frequency modulation technique noise sources cross talk medium characteristics and the like.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation wireless network carrier a core network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a MPC MSC . The carrier network may communicate with the MPC MSC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the MPC MSC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MPC MSC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The MPC MSC can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MPC MSC is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS MPC MSC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated.

Referring to the access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein related to access probe backoff. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

As used herein access terminal includes for example one or more processing circuits executing resident configured logic where such computing devices include for example microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs microcontrollers or any suitable combination of hardware software and or firmware containing processors and logic configured to at least perform the operations described herein. Some examples of access terminals or wireless devices which may be used in accordance with embodiments of the present invention include cellular telephones or other wireless communication units personal digital assistants PDAs paging devices handheld navigation devices handheld gaming devices music or video content download units and other like wireless communication devices.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and MPC MSC . The MPC MSC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN after traffic channels have been established.

As previously discussed conventional systems do not perform a random backoff during the initial transmission of the access probe. Accordingly the probability of collisions on the initial access probe is greater than in subsequent access attempts. Additionally to further enhance the probability of the access probe being successfully completed the random backoff can be optimized based on the channel load. Both of these aspects and other aspects of embodiments of the invention will be discussed in the following description.

Collisions can occur on the Access Channel whenever two or more access probes start transmitting at the same time. This can be particularly probable in a geographically dense call region e.g. in a group communications network . For example in a group communications network a large number of access terminals may be simultaneously paged and attempt to access the network such as in CDMA2000 1x when a large number of access terminals transmit the 8026 Page Response following a jump to hyperspace operation. In general the jump to hyperspace operations refers to 1x access terminals that get a page message attempt to get synchronized with respect to each other within a time window e.g. in a 80 msec. window of time when transmitting the page response message.

The dependence of collision probability on the load on the Access Channel and the random backoff interval can be determined in closed form. These results can be used in the development of an adaptive backoff algorithm that ensures successful delivery of access probes over the Access Channel.

For comparison to embodiments of the present invention a conventional sequence of access probes is illustrated in . The first probe is transmitted at an initial power Pinit during a first Access Channel slot . The probe waits for acknowledgement from the access point e.g. base station or for an acknowledgement timeout to occur. Then a random backoff time is determined before the next access probe is sent. As illustrated the second access probe and subsequent access probes and will be sent using increasingly higher transmit powers until an acknowledgement is received a maximum power is reached or the access process timeout occurs.

A reference diagram that illustrates an exemplary access procedure over the Access Channel in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention is illustrated in . As illustrated an exemplary access procedure for embodiments of the invention differs from the standard specified procedure in one aspect in that a random backoff operation is performed even before the transmission of the first access probe.

For example let N denote the number of access terminals that have a probe to transmit over the Access Channel at time t 0. Each access terminal randomly defers its transmission by RT access cycle durations where 0 RT D 1. The random backoff time RT can take integer values and can be uniformly distributed in the interval 0 D 1 . In one embodiment D can be fixed to a pre specified value. In this case two probes will only collide with each other if their random backoff times RT are the same on the first access attempt. Collisions can also occur on subsequent access attempts if the access probes transmissions start at the same time.

Accordingly the probability of M probes colliding in exactly K slots can be denoted as P N D . The number of collisions in each of these K slots can be given as l i i . . . i where i i . . . i M. Then 

The foregoing illustration results if the BTS is only able to decode exactly one probe per access cycle duration then a collision will occur if two or more probes start transmissions simultaneously e.g. i 2 for all k 1 K and K M 2 . However if the BTS is able to decode exactly J access probes transmitted in the same access cycle duration then all we need to do is add the constraint i J 1 for all k 1 K and K M J 1 in the determination of P N D .

In the following section the impact on delay in successful delivery of an access probe as a function of the load on the Access Channel is analyzed for varying values of the random backoff duration. These results provide valuable insight to the development of the backoff algorithm in accordance with some embodiments of the invention.

To facilitate an understanding of the following disclosure definitions for various terms used therein will be provided. For example the delay incurred by the first successful access probe out of N access probes is denoted by Minimum Delay. Note that the minimum delay will impact latency sensitive applications. The delay incurred by the last successful access probe out of N access probes is denoted by Maximum Delay. The 50th and 80th percentile delay are defined as the delay experienced by the N 2 and 0.8N successful access probe respectively. The terms ProbeBackoff and D may be used interchangeably where ProbeBackoff D 1.

N denotes the number of access terminals that have a probe to transmit over the Access Channel at time t 0. Each access terminal randomly defers its transmission by RT access cycle durations where 0 RT D 1. The random backoff time RT takes integer values and is uniformly distributed in the interval 0 D 1 .

K denotes the number of access cycle durations in which a collision event takes place when N access probes contend to transmit over the Access Channel. A collision event is said to occur whenever two or more access probes start transmitting in the same access cycle duration.

R denotes the minimum number of successful access probes on the first access attempt when N probes that are synchronized with respect to each other contend for transmissions over the Access Channel.

Pdenotes the minimum probability of success of R access probes on the first access attempt when N access probes contend to transmit on the Access Channel.

Ldenotes a pre determined value that constrains a delay metric that defines the success of one or more access probes of a total of N access probes.

P N D denotes the probability of M probes colliding in K collision events when N access probes begin access procedures at the same time and defer their probe transmission by a random amount of time in the interval 0 D 1 Access Cycle durations prior to the first access attempt.

Further in the following illustration the following configuration parameters are assumed for the Access Channel.

Probes that are lost due to access collisions will be retransmitted one 1 access cycle duration milliseconds ACMPTProbeTimeout 128 after the end of probe transmission. This is based on the smallest possible value as specified in the 1xEVDO Rev. A.

The delay incurred in transmitting access probes over the Access Channel can be analyzed as a function of the load on the Access Channel for different settings of D. The delay incurred by the first successful access probe out of N access probes is denoted by Minimum Delay. The delay incurred by the last successful access probe out of N access probes is denoted by Maximum Delay.

Each data point in was computed by averaging over 500 runs. For the case of N 1 the Minimum Delay 33.33 msec which is the lowest possible value since the preamble payload is equal to 20 slots. The Minimum Delay is approximately 150 160 msec for all values of N 2. This is because in the default setting the first access attempt always results in a collision because there is no random backoff before the first attempt. Since the first successful probe is generally successful in the second access attempt the average value of Minimum Delay 2 Preamble Payload ACMProbeTimeout 0.5 ProbeBackoff AccessCycleDuration Alignment with nearest cycle boundary which can be determined as Minimum Delay 2 33.33 26.67 0.5 4 26.67 12 1.67 166 msec.

Alignment with the nearest Access Cycle boundary can result in an additional delay of 12 slots. Additionally the average delay incurred as a result of performing a random backoff is not always equal to 0.5 ProbeBackoff AccessCycleDuration slots. It can be considered a function of the backoff interval length and is typically less than the value of 0.5 ProbeBackoff AccessCycleDuration for D N.

However for all values of N 2 we find that the first successful access probe incurs an average delay of 87 msec which is significantly less than 166 msec. This is because performing a random backoff operation prior to the first access attempt results in a significant decrease in Access Channel collision probability and as a result at least one access probe is generally successful in the first access attempt. Following the first access attempt both these experiments depict identical behavior as ProbeBackoff 4 for all retransmissions in either case.

The Minimum Delay value directly affects the initial latency of the system. Accordingly in latency sensitive applications such as group communications the initial latency should be minimized as much as possible. Additionally for the group communications applications and other latency sensitive applications the 50th percentile delay should be considered as it can impact some target access terminals and cause loss of some initial media traffic. The 50th 80th and the Maximum Delay values are uniformly lower in as compared to for all values of N 2. For example for N 6 both the 50th and 80th percentile delay in figure is 112 msec lower than in . Accordingly aspects of embodiments of the invention such as performing the random backoff procedure prior to the first access probe can yield significant reduction in delay.

Referring to the minimum and maximum values of delay in transmitting N access probes are illustrated. Using the best achievable delay e.g. achieved by centralized scheduling can be ascertained. For example comparing the delay achieved in experiments 1 and 2 to the smallest possible value as shown in the Minimum Delay achieved in experiment 2 is approximately 2.6 times higher than the best possible value for all values of N 2. The Maximum Delay in experiment 2 is approximately 2.2 times its smallest possible value for large values of N. In fact the 50th percentile delay in experiment 2 is very close to the smallest possible value of Maximum Delay in for all values of N. The delay provisioned by the randomized backoff algorithm is within a factor of 2 2.5 of the theoretical lower bound.

Referring to the effect of the backoff delay interval 0 D 1 for D 3 and D 7 respectively are illustrated. In order to understand the effect of delay on the backoff interval 0 D 1 simulations were run for alternate values of D namely D 3 and D 7 with all other parameters being the same. The results in suggest that in order to minimize the Minimum Delay a lower value of D is necessary for low N and a higher value of D is needed for high N.

The delay distribution of the Minimum Delay for D 3 and D 7 are illustrated in respectively for the case of N 8. As can be observed from these histograms for D 3 the probability of transmitting at least one access probe is high and results in an average delay of approximately 2 33.34 26.67 93 msec. For the case of D 7 there is a very high probability that at least one access probe is successful on the first attempt. However because of a large backoff interval 0 6 Access cycles the delay incurred in transmitting the first access probe is much higher with an average delay of 87 msec for most values of N. The histograms of illustrate that a low value of D e.g. 3 results in a high probability that at least one access probe can be transmitted successfully within a target value of 100 msec.

Additionally as can be seen in the 50th percentile delay is roughly the same for low values of N in but is significantly lower in for high values of N. This can be attributed to a lower collision rate when ProbeBackoff is set to 7 as opposed to ProbeBackoff 3. For N 8. The 50th percentile delay for ProbeBackoff 6 is 100 msec lower than when ProbeBackoff 2. The delay distribution of the 50th percentile delay for D 3 and D 7 are plotted in respectively for the case of N 8.

However the Maximum Delay for ProbeBackoff 6 is 100 msec and is not significantly lower than for the case when ProbeBackoff 2. For higher values of ProbeBackoff e.g. 6 even a single collision can result in a large increase in delay because of the large backoff interval 6 Access cycles . Therefore even though the collision rate is lower for ProbeBackoff 6 the delay incurred upon collisions is higher and as a result the Maximum Delay tends to be high. However it is still less than the corresponding value of Maximum Delay for ProbeBackoff 2 for large values of N. The delay distribution of the Maximum Delay for ProbeBackoff 2 and ProbeBackoff 6 are illustrated in respectively for the case of N 8.

Referring to the probability of at least one successful access attempt is plotted against the ProbeBackoff for odd and even values of N respectively. The lack of sensitivity of the Minimum Delay curve with increasing N for large D can be corroborated by looking at the probability of at least one successful access attempt versus N. This probability is given by 

From it can be observed that setting D 5 i.e. ProbeBackoff 4 will ensure that at least one access probe is successful among N access probe transmissions in the first access attempt 90 of the time regardless of the value of N in the range 2 N 10. Increasing D beyond 5 only yields marginal improvements in the success probability on the first access attempt. Setting D 5 can be considered to be one optimal predetermined value since it ensures success of at least one access probe with very high probability even for a wide range of values of N i.e. 2 N 10 . However it must be noted that the average collision probability of an access probe will increase with increasing N for a given value of D.

The above approach can be generalized to determine the probability of at least an arbitrary number of R successes which is given by 

As can be discerned from the foregoing figures and description for any given value of D the probability of at least one success in the first access attempt increases with increasing N. This is true in spite of the fact that the collision rate increases with increasing N in the first access attempt for a given value of D. Since the probability of at least one success in the first access attempt is greater than 80 for D 5 for all 2 N 10 the minimum delay remains approximately constant with increasing values of N for all N 2.

Accordingly we can consider the backoff interval D N while maintaining all other parameters the same to provide optimal backoff settings for minimizing Minimum Delay. illustrates the various delay metrics as a function of N for the case when D N. The Minimum Delay curve is approximately constant for all values of N 2. For large values of N e.g. N 3 assuming D N the probability of success of exactly one access probe at time t 0 is given by 

The above probability is approximately 38 since e 2.71 which is sufficiently high. In fact a simple value for minimizing Minimum Delay using a random backoff procedure can be to set D N. This is explained in greater detail at the end of the Detailed Description. It can also be shown that the average number of successes in the initial 0 N 1 Access cycle durations starting from t 0 can be considered N e 0.38N when D N.

As noted above setting D N is simple case that can be used effectively in embodiments of the invention. The case of D N is an interesting case because it tends to maximize the probability of success of exactly one access probe transmission in the earliest available transmission opportunity on the Access Channel on the first access attempt i.e. at time t 0 which is given as 

This guarantee makes this choice a rather attractive one. However there are two major disadvantages in setting D N. First for large values of N setting D to N can result in a significant increase in the 95th percentile delay. Second an improper estimation of N can result in a large increase in delay and can adversely affect performance.

In general it can be seen that for large N 5 the probability of at least one probe succeeding on the first access attempt was significantly high 95 for D 5. Therefore setting D to a value greater than 5 would generally not be desirable. The above algorithm can be stated as D min N Dmax where Dmax is a system specific pre determined value that upper bounds the random backoff interval e.g. Dmax 5 . For low values of N such a setting will result in a low 50th percentile delay.

Additionally the probability of success of at least one access probe within K access cycle durations starting from t 0 is given by P K where

A setting for D according to one embodiment of the invention was shown above to be equal to N. However the value of N typically is not relayed to the access terminal in a direct manner. Accordingly the value of N can be estimated so that an appropriate value of D can be set. However in estimating the value of N the effect of the various delay metrics as a function of D for low and high values of N e.g. N 4 6 and 8 can be considered to guide the estimations. Setting D N tends to minimize the average values of Minimum Delay 50th percentile delay as well as Maximum Delay. Each of the delay metrics increases quickly when D is set to a value that is less than N as opposed to a value that is greater than N.

Accordingly for large values of N inaccuracy in estimating N does not lead to a significant increase in any of these delay metrics. For instance if N was 8 in reality but was estimated inaccurately to some value in the range of 6 to 12 and the value of D was set to this estimated value the average increase in Minimum Delay as a result of this inaccurate estimate is at most 10 msec. The 50th percentile delay and Maximum Delay are higher by at most 20 and 50 msec respectively.

However underestimating N by even a small amount when N is small can result in a significant increase in all of the above delay metrics. This calls for a conservative approach to estimation of N when it is expected to be small e.g. N 4 . Further for small values of N e.g. 2 N 4 it may be adequate to assume to set D 3 4. The relative insensitivity in the delay metrics in spite of an inaccurate estimate of N for high values of N suggests that for large values of N D could be set to a relatively small fixed value. For example for all 6 N 12 D could be set to a fixed value such as 5 or 6.

Further a minimum guarantee P on the probability of at least R successes in the first access attempt given N synchronized transmitters on the Access Channel can be used to determine the backoff interval D. Accordingly the backoff interval D can be determined by computing the smallest D that solves the following inequality 

Given a delay constraint wherein the Qpercentile delay of successful transmission of K access probes out of a total of N access probes on the Access Channel must be no greater than Lmax the smallest backoff interval can be determined as a function of N and Lmax by a simple table lookup whose entries for example can be generated by offline computations simulations . For example in the case of K 1 and plots the 50th 85th and 95th i.e. Q 50 85 95 percentile delay respectively of the first successful access probe. Given N Q and Dmax the value of D for the case of K 1 can be determined as the smallest value of D such that the Qth percentile delay is greater than Lmax and this value can be stored in the form of a table at the access terminal e.g. database .

Accordingly in an embodiment of the invention the backoff interval can be determined based on a delay constraint. The delay constraint can be determined as discussed above as a maximum delay Lmax for a given percentile Q of the successful transmission of K access probes out of a total of N simultaneous access probes on the access channel. The backoff interval e.g. 0 D 1 can then be determined based on the values on N and Lmax e.g. using the a table of via graphs as discussed above .

As discussed above the setting D N is an upper bound for the case when the probability of decoding one access probe when more than one access probe is transmitted using the same PN code on the Access Channel. Denoting the probability of decoding one access probe when n access probes are transmitted over the Access Channel using the same PN code by A the value D can be determined as the solution to the following expression 

In experiments in a lab environment having an unloaded system Awas observed to be equal to 1 for N 5. For the special case of A 1 for all 1 n N 

However in a real world deployed networks it is very likely that A1. In the worst case A 0 for all N 1.

The probability of capture of the strongest access probe when exactly two access probes are transmitted using the same CDMA PN code is 75 when the RoT at the BTS is 5 dB. In a laboratory environment e.g. QChat Multicast demo environment and an unloaded system one access probe was decoded correctly even when five probes were transmitted at the same time. As illustrated by these experiments it can be possible to decode an access probe even if more than one access probe is transmitted i.e. in the presence of collisions . Accordingly we can let the probability of decoding one access probe when iprobes are transmitted simultaneously using the same PN code be denoted by Ai. This probability can be known apriori from experimentation and simulation. Then impact on computing the backoff interval can be determined as 

Using the above definition the probability of at least R successes in the first access attempt can be easily computed and used w.l.o.g. without loss of generality directly in the Backoff algorithm in the section entitled Backoff Algorithm Based on Target Success Probability of Access Probe s . Similarly the parameterized curves generated in section entitled Backoff Algorithm Based on Target Delay Guarantee can be recomputed via simulations by taking into consideration the capture probabilities A where 1 n N as well. Generally the capture effect can be considered as a weighting function to allow D to be adjusted based on the likelihood that a probe will be successfully received even in the event of a collision. That is the value of D will tend to be increased as the probability of successfully receiving a probe even after a collision increases.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate from the foregoing disclosure that the value of the random backoff interval can affect the delay experienced by access probes over the Access Channel. It can also be appreciated that the value of the backoff interval should be generally set to a higher value when N is high and to a smaller value when N is low. By setting the backoff interval to 0 N 1 Access cycle durations can increase the probability of success of an access probe within the initial five access cycles to 95 true for N 3 . Such a setting may be appropriate for group communication systems e.g. push to talk systems QChat Group calls as the Initial delay is typically determined by the arrival of the first ANNOUNCE ACK. Therefore using the setting of D N or N 1 can yield optimal performance with regards to minimizing the Minimum Delay as well the 50th percentile delay and Maximum Delay as discussed above which can improve the initial delay. Further according to embodiments of the invention the random backoff procedure can be used prior to each access attempt. Still further embodiments of the invention can be implemented at the access terminal either at the application layer or at the MAC layer.

In view of the foregoing disclosure those skilled in the art will recognize that embodiments of the invention include methods of performing the sequence of actions operations and or functions previously discussed. For example as illustrated in at least one embodiment includes a method comprising determining a backoff interval based on the channel load determining a random backoff time and delaying the transmission of an initial access probe for the random backoff time . As discussed herein by adding a random backoff time to the initial access probe transmission the probability of that the probe will be successfully received is greatly enhanced.

Additionally as discussed herein the backoff interval defines a range from which the random backoff time is selected. For example the value D can be set equal to or approximately equal to N block . As noted above N is a number of access terminals or can be considered access probes attempting to access the Access Channel and D is used to establish an interval as 0 D 1 Access cycles of the random backoff time. Alternatively D can be considered to be a non decreasing function of N block . The term non decreasing function of N represents that D can be loosely related to N such that when N is large D is generally larger than D when N is small. However this relationship is not limited to any specific ratios or factors and may include discontinuous regions. For example D can be determined as being equal to N or D can be set to a predetermined value based on a range of values of N e.g. D 6 for 6 N 12 or D 3 or 4 for N 4 . Still further the backoff interval can be determined directly from N e.g. 0 N 1 Access cycles block wherein N is a number of access terminals attempting to access the Access Channel. In yet another aspect of the invention D can be set to a value greater than or equal to N for low values of N and wherein D is set to a value of less than or equal to N for large values of N block .

Other methods and variations of the foregoing illustration are readily available to the those skilled in the art for performing the sequence of actions operations and or functions previously discussed. Accordingly the illustrated embodiments do not limit the invention. For example the backoff interval can be determined based on a quality of service constraint as discussed above. Therefore the method can further include establishing a quality of service constraint wherein the quality of service constraint is further used in determining the backoff interval. The quality of service constraint can be considered any function that determines a probability of success P for a desired number of access probes R . Accordingly any of the previously described functions algorithms and or methods for establishing the backoff interval and related backoff algorithms are within the scope of embodiments of the invention.

As discussed in the foregoing embodiments of the invention can improve system latency which can benefit all applications but is particularly important to delay sensitive applications. A group communication system is an example of a delay sensitive system that can take advantage of reduced connection times offered by embodiments of the invention disclosed herein. The group communication system may also be known as a push to talk PTT system a net broadcast service NBS a dispatch system or a point to multi point communication system. Typically a group of access terminal users can communicate with one another using an access terminal assigned to each group member. The term group member denotes a group of access terminal users authorized to communicate with each other. Although group communication systems PTT systems may be considered to be among several members the system is not limited to this configuration and can apply to communication between individual devices on a one to one basis.

The group may operate over an existing communications system without requiring substantial changes to the existing infrastructure. Thus a controller and users may operate in any system capable of transmitting and receiving packet information using Internet protocol IP such as a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA system a Time Division Multiple Access TDMA system a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM system satellite communication systems combinations of land line and wireless systems and the like.

Group members may communicate with each other using an assigned access terminal such as ATs and . The ATs may be wireline or wireless devices such as terrestrial wireless telephones wireline telephones having push to talk capability satellite telephones equipped with push to talk functionality wireless video cameras still cameras audio devices such as music recorders or players laptop or desktop computers paging devices or any combination thereof. Furthermore each AT may be able to send and receive information in either a secure mode or a non secure clear mode. It should be understood that reference to an access terminal AT is not intended to be limited to the illustrated or enumerated examples and may encompass other devices that have the capability to transmit and receive packet information in accordance with the Internet Protocol IP .

When a group member wishes to transmit information to other members of the group the member may request the transmission privilege by pressing a push to talk button or key on an AT which generates a request formatted for transmission over a distributed network. For example the request may be transmitted from AT over the air to one or more MPTs or base stations . A MPC MSC which may include a well known inter working function IWF packet data serving node PDSN or packet control function PCF for processing data packets may exist between MPT BS and the distributed network RAN . However the requests may also be transmitted through the public switched telephone network PSTN to a carrier network . The carrier network may receive the request and provide it to distributed network .

Referring to one or more group communication servers can monitor traffic of the group communication system through its connection to distributed network . Since group communication server can be connected to the network through a variety of wired and wireless interfaces geographic proximity to group participants is not necessary. Typically a group communication server controls communications between the access terminals wireless devices of group members ATs in a PTT system. The wireless network illustrated is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. A series of group communication servers can be connected to a group communication server LAN .

The group communication server s can be connected to a wireless service provider s packet data service node PDSN such as PSDN shown here resident on a carrier network . Each PSDN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF may be located in the base station . The carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a MSC . The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and PSTN for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless ATs such as cellular telephones as is well known in the art. Accordingly the details of a group communication system will not be further discussed.

As discussed in the foregoing group members ATs can utilize embodiments of the invention to increase the probability of a successful first transmission of an access probe thereby reducing the PTT latency and improving the system performance. Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal comprising logic configured to determine a random backoff time logic configured to delay the transmission of an initial access probe for the random backoff time and logic configured to determine a backoff interval based on channel load wherein the backoff interval defines a range from which the random backoff time is selected. Accordingly logic in the access terminal can be configured to perform the functions algorithms equations sequences and or actions discussed herein.

Additionally a server e.g. the group communication server RAN or other network device can work cooperatively with the access terminal to increase probability of a successful first transmission of an access probe. As used herein the term server is intended to be broadly construed as any device and or combination of devices that are part of the wireless network or operably coupled to the wireless network that can perform the functions described herein Accordingly in one embodiment of the invention a server can transmit the number of participants in a group call e.g. channel load estimate potential N as part of the Announce Message initial message to the access terminal or initial page. Additionally the message could be configured to list the number of access terminals in a sector cell that are designated as part of the group call. For example this configuration can be useful when a QChat group call or similar group communication is placed using the multicast option. In general this information can be exploited for all group calls.

Further a server e.g. RAN can specify the total number of sectors in its paging zone to the access terminal. The access terminal can use this information to determine an estimate of N based on the number of pages which can be considered to be proportional to the number of calls including both direct calls as well as group calls it sees on a signaling or overhead channel e.g. Control Channel every paging cycle. If the server is configured to track the geographical location of access terminals at a finer granularity than a paging zone and transmit pages to a few sectors where the access terminal is most likely to be then each access terminal can listen to pages on the Control Channel that are within its sector or in a neighboring sector. This can further enhance the ability to estimate the channel load N which in turn can enhance the ability of the access terminal to accurately establish the backoff interval.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a communication system comprising a server including logic configured to transmit a channel load estimate and an access terminal including logic configured to receiving the channel load estimate logic configured to determine a backoff interval based on the channel load estimate logic configured to determine a random backoff time wherein the backoff interval defines a range from which the random backoff time is selected and logic configured to delay the transmission of an initial access probe for the random backoff time. As discussed above the channel load estimate is a number of participants in a group call and can be transmitted in an initial communication from a server to an access terminal e.g. in an Announce Message .

Further embodiments of the invention can also include a method comprising transmitting a channel load estimate receiving the channel load estimate determining a backoff interval based on the channel load estimate determining a random backoff time wherein the backoff interval defines a range from which the random backoff time is selected and delaying the transmission of an initial access probe for the random backoff time. Those skilled in the art will appreciate additional methods from the foregoing description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to the itemized methods recited herein.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable media embodying methods in accordance with the methods algorithms steps and or functions disclosed herein. For example embodiments of the invention can include a computer readable media embodying a method in a wireless communication system the method comprising determining a backoff interval based on channel load determining a random backoff time wherein the backoff interval defines a range from which the random backoff time is selected and delaying the transmission of an initial access probe for the random backoff time. Further the computer readable media can embody a method further comprising determining the backoff interval based on a channel load estimate received from a server.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

Let us denote the probability of M probes colliding in exactly K collision events by P N D . Let the number of probes colliding in each of these K collision events be given by I i i . . . i where i i . . . i M. Then 

