---

title: Compositions and methods for spinocerebellar ataxia
abstract: The autosomal dominant spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) represent a growing and heterogeneous clinical phenotype with ongoing discovery of causative etiologies. Methods: The authors collected DNA and clinically characterized a three-generation Filipino family segregating a dominant ataxia. Following elimination of several known SCA loci, a genome-wide linkage study was undertaken with additional fine mapping of 19q13. Results: Clinical characterization of affected family members revealed cerebellar signs including gait ataxia, limb ataxia/dysmetria, titubation, hypotonia, dysarthria, and nystagmus. Linkage was found in a ˜4 cM region of 19q13 bounded by markers D19S867 and D19S553, with a maximum LOD score of 3.89 at markers D19S904, D19S246, and D19S907. This region overlaps with, though markedly reduces the previously described SCA13 locus. Conclusion: An autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia clinically distinguishable from SCA13 overlaps with the SCA13 locus on chromosome 19q13.3.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07585629&OS=07585629&RS=07585629
owner: Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
number: 07585629
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060424
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application Nos. 60 674 182 filed Apr. 22 2005 and 60 720 915 filed Sep. 26 2005.

This invention was made with United States Government support under Grants No. R01GM43459 R01GM66686 R01N533123 and T32GM065823 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to the diagnosis and treatment of neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative diseases.

The dominant spinocerebellar ataxias SCA are a growing group of heterogeneous neurodegenerative diseases with phenotypes consisting of cerebellar ataxia with or without extrapyramidal signs dysarthria occulomotor abnormalities upper and lower motor neuron signs cognitive decline epilepsy autonomic dysfunction sensory deficits and psychiatric manifestations. Pulst S M ed. Genetics of Movement Disorders. Academic Press San Diego 2002 Sch ls L Bauer P Schmidt T Schulte T Riess O. Autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias clinical features genetics and pathogenesis. Lancet Neurol 2004 5 291 304. A total of twenty six loci are known and for ten SCAs the causative gene or mutation has been determined. The majority of these are represented by abnormal CAG repeat expansions.

Despite the remarkable progress in identifying loci and genes for the dominant ataxias approximately 40 of SCAs remain unaccounted for. Clinical characterization of the dominant SCAs is difficult given both the degree of intra and interfamilial variability and phenotypic similarity seen in mutations of different genes. Mantuano E Veneziano L Jodice C Frontali M. Spinocerebellar ataxia type 6 and episodic ataxia type 2 differences and similarities between two allelic disorders. Cytogenet Genome Res 2003 100 1 4 147 153 Gomez C M Subramony S H. Dominantly inherited ataxias. Semin Pediatr Neurol 2003 10 3 210 212. Even for ataxias which share polyglutamine repeat expansions in vivo and in vitro experiments have revealed remarkable differences in disease pathogenesis. Ranum L P Day J W. Myotonic dystrophy RNA pathogenesis comes into focus. Am J Hum Genet 2004 74 5 793 804 Lieberman A P Fischbeck K H Triplet repeat expansion in neuromuscular disease. Muscle Nerve 2000 23 6 843 50 Michalik A Van Broeckhoven C. 2003 Pathogenesis of polyglutamine disorders aggregation revisited. Hum Mol Genet 2003 12 2 173 186. The identification of mutations causing neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative diseases and the elucidation of the molecular mechanisms by which they cause disease thus represents a major advance in the diagnosis and treatment of neurodegenerative and neurodevelopmental diseases.

The present invention demonstrates for the first time that mutations in voltage gated potassium channel can cause developmental and degenerative neurological diseases. After evaluating a family pedigree with adult onset ataxia the causative mutation for a spinocerebellar ataxia was mapped to chromosome 19 locus q13 overlapping the SCA13 locus described in a French pedigree with childhood onset mental retardation ataxia and seizures. Sequencing the gene revealed KCNC3 Kv3.3 a voltage gated Shaw potassium channel with enriched cerebellar expression carrying mutations 1554G A R420H in Filipino 1639C A F448L in French pedigrees and R417H. Wildtype KCNC3 channels expressed in oocytes had the expected depolarized activation range and fast deactivation kinetics. KCNC3 R420H had no detectable channel activity when expressed alone and strong dominant negative effects when co expressed with wildtype. KCNC3 F448L altered gating such that activation was shifted 13 mV toward the hyperpolarized direction and channel closing was 7 fold slower than wildtype. The R420H and F448L mutations are expected to change the output characteristics of fast spiking cerebellar neurons where KCNC channels confer capacity for high frequency firing. Thus the present invention provides for the identification of voltage gated potassium channel mutations as a new class of genes involved in neurodegenerative diseases.

Because KCNC3 encodes a voltage gated potassium channel belonging to the Shaw subfamily of K channels it will now be possible to identify mutations in other voltage gated potassium channels belonging to the same or related families of potassium channels that are involved in neurodegenerative diseases. For example the Shaker Shab Shaw Shal families of voltage gated potassium channels share significant homology throughout the functional domains that have been shown by the present invention to be involved in neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative diseases. Thus mutations in KCNA Shaker KCNA 1 5 and 6 genes located in cluster on Chromosome 12p13 KCNA1 Kv1.1 KCNA2 Kv1.2 KCNA3 Kv1.3 KCNA4 Kv1.4 KCNA4L KCNA5 Kv1.5 KCNA6 Kv1.6 KCNA7 KCNA8 KCNA9 KCNQ1 KCNA10 KCNAB1 Kv 1.1 KCNAB2 Kv 1.2 KCNAB3 KCNB Shab KCNB1 Kv2.1 KCNB2 Kv2.2 KCNC Shaw KCNC1 Kv3.1 KCNC2 Kv3.2 KCNC3 Kv3.3 KCNC4 Kv3.4 KCND Shal KCND1 Kv4.1 KCND2 Kv4.2 KCND3 Kv4.3 can now be detected and diagnosed in neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative disease. All of the foregoing voltage gated potassium channels are well known and their nucleotide and amino acid sequences are publicly available. In addition as shown in the KCNC channels 1 4 share significant sequence homology with each other including a large number of highly conserved residues such as R420 R417 and F448. In addition some members of different voltage gated potassium channel families interact with each other as in heteromultimerization. For example KCNC3 frequently heterodimerizes with other members of the KCNC family. Thus mutations in functional domains of any of the closely related members of the KCNC family are predicted to produce phenotypes similar to those produced by the R420H R417H and F448L mutations characterized herein. Dominant spinocerebellar ataxias SCA are a group of heterogeneous neurodegenerative diseases with phenotypes consisting of cerebellar ataxia extrapyramidal signs dysarthria oculomotor abnormalities motor neuron signs cognitive decline epilepsy autonomic dysfunction sensory deficits and psychiatric manifestations.

The present invention provides a method of diagnosing neurodegenerative and or neurodevelopmental disease in an individual by detecting a disease associated mutation linked to a voltage gated potassium channel locus. The disease associated mutation can be linked to but outside a gene coding for a voltage gated potassium channel or can be within the gene such as in a coding sequence 5 or 3 regulatory region or within an intronic sequence.

In the methods of the invention the disease associated mutation can produce for example a functionally compromised gene product including a dominant negative gene product. Examples of neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative disease associated mutations occurring within a voltage gated potassium channel nucleotide sequence include nucleotide variations at nucleotide 1554 and nucleotide 1639 of KCNC3 and analogous positions in related channels.

A variety of molecular methods useful in detecting a mutation in a voltage gated potassium channel are well known in the art. For example allele specific oligonucleotide hybridization involves the use of a labeled oligonucleotide probe having a sequence perfectly complementary for example to a disease associated sequence. Under appropriate conditions the allele specific probe hybridizes to a nucleic acid containing the disease associated mutation but does not hybridize to the corresponding wild type nucleic acid sequence having one or more nucleotide mismatches. If desired a second allele specific oligonucleotide probe that matches the wild type sequence also can be used. Similarly the technique of allele specific oligonucleotide amplification can be used to selectively amplify for example a disease associated polymorphic sequence by using an allele specific oligonucleotide primer that is perfectly complementary to the nucleotide sequence of a disease associated allele but which has one or more mismatches as compared to the corresponding wild type sequence Mullis et al. Eds. The Polymerase Chain Reaction Birkhauser Boston 1994 which is incorporated herein by reference .

A heteroduplex mobility assay HMA is another well known assay that can be used to diagnose a neurodegenerative and or neurodevelopmental disease caused by a mutation in a voltage gated potassium channel according to a method of the invention. HMA is useful for detecting the presence of a polymorphic sequence since a DNA duplex carrying a mismatch such as a heteroduplex between a wild type and mutated DNA fragment has reduced mobility in a polyacrylamide gel compared to the mobility of a perfectly base paired duplex Delwart et al. Science 262 1257 1261 1993 White et al. Genomics 12 301 306 1992 each of which is incorporated herein by reference . The technique of single strand conformation polymorphism SSCP also can be used to detect the presence of a mutation in a voltage gated potassium channel see Hayashi PCR Methods Applic. 1 34 38 1991 which is incorporated herein by reference . This technique can be used to detect mutations based on differences in the secondary structure of single strand DNA that produce an altered electrophoretic mobility upon non denaturing gel electrophoresis.

Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis DGGE also can be used to detect a mutation in a voltage gated potassium channel. In DGGE double stranded DNA is electrophoresed in a gel containing an increasing concentration of denaturant double stranded fragments made up of mismatched wild type and disease associated sequences have segments that melt more rapidly causing such fragments to migrate differently as compared to perfectly complementary sequences obtained from normal individuals Sheffield et al. Identifying DNA Polymorphisms by Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis in Innis et al. supra 20 1990 .

Other well known approaches for analyzing a mutation include automated sequencing RNAase mismatch techniques Winter et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 82 7575 7579 1985 which is incorporated herein by reference and the use of restriction fragment length polymorphisms see Innis et al. supra 1990 . For families in which the disease associated mutation has been defined automated sequencing of the region of interest can be particularly useful in diagnosing a neurodegenerative or neurodevelopmental disease. In addition dot blot hybridization RFLP analysis and many more techniques well known in the art can be used for the purposes of the present invention.

A three generation Filipino family segregating a dominant ataxia with prominent cerebellar signs and symptoms as well as cerebellar atrophy on MR imaging has been previously described. The clinical and imaging phenotypes were typical of degenerative SCAs. A genome wide linkage scan revealed a disease locus in a 4 cM region of 19q13 with a 3.89 LOD score. This region partially overlapped the SCA13 locus4 though the Filipino phenotype was clinically distinguishable from SCA13. For high resolution mapping we generated novel dinucleotide markers from the Ensembl genome browser release 31.35d . The linkage region was reduced to 900K bases. Haplotypes for the novel markers are shown in . Several markers including D19S904 showed no recombination events. Obligate recombinants were detected for both D19S867 and D19S553 which defined a physical candidate region with the LOD 1 drop interval providing a probable location of the disease gene near D19S904. This region contained approximately forty candidate genes including KCNC3. Direct sequencing revealed two missense mutations in exon 2. The Filipino pedigree contained 1554G A encoding R420H in the third conserved arginine residue in S4 . The French pedigree contained 1639C A encoding F448L near the cytoplasmic end of S5 .

Among voltage gated K channels the functional properties of Kv3 channels are distinct. Kv3 channels activate in a more depolarized range and close much more rapidly compared to other Kv channels. These properties facilitate high frequency firing of action potentials with little or no adaptation a characteristic of neuronal populations found in the mammalian neocortex hippocampus auditory nuclei and cerebellum. Like other voltage gated K channels Kv3 channels are tetramers. Different Shaw family subunits are able to co assemble with each other but not with subunits from other Kv subfamilies. Each subunit has six transmembrane segments and a re entrant loop . The first four transmembrane segments S1 S4 constitute the voltage sensor domain whereas the last two segments S5 and S6 and the re entrant loop form the ion selective pore. The Filipino mutation is located in S4 the main voltage sensing element and changes one of the multiple positively charged residues that respond to changes in membrane potential. The French mutation is in the cytoplasmic end of S5 which is involved in coupling voltage sensor conformational changes with opening and closing of the pore. The depolarized voltage dependence and rapid deactivation that are characteristic of Kv3 channels are related properties conferred by specific amino acid residues in the voltage sensor and S5. Importantly KCNC3 protein sequences in S4 and S5 are 100 conserved amongst phyla suggesting strong selection for the specialized role of these channels . Consistent with this observation screening over four hundred alleles from normal individuals of Filipino or Anglo European descent revealed no polymorphisms at either site.

To investigate the functional consequences of the SCA13 mutations we expressed wildtype and mutant KCNC3 alleles in oocytes and recorded channel activity using a two electrode voltage clamp. Activation of the wild type Kv3.3 channel was detected at 10 mV and more positive potentials . Upon repolarization to 90 mV the channel closed quickly. In contrast expression of R420H resulted in no detectable channel activity . Co expression of wildtype Kv3.3 and R420H subunits led to suppression of current amplitude consistent with a dominant negative effect . R420H did not suppress the expression of Shaker a member of the Kv1 family . These results indicated that Kv3 subfamily specific co assembly of wildtype and mutant subunits produced non functional channels.

Expression of F448L produced channels with altered gating. Activation of F448L was detected at 20 mV compared to 10 mV for wildtype . Analysis of the probability of opening as a function of voltage confirmed that activation was shifted 13 mV toward the hyperpolarized direction . Activation kinetics of F448L and wildtype were similar at voltages where both have a maximal open probability . However deactivation kinetics of F448L were dramatically slower. Tail currents were recorded after repolarization to 90 mV using an 89 mM Rb bath solution and fitted with a single exponential component . This revealed a 7 fold slowing of channel closure in the F448L channel. The hyperpolarized shift in the probability of opening and the slower rate of deactivation are related findings indicating that F448L increases the relative stability of the open state. F448L makes the properties of Kv3.3 channels more similar to those of Shaker and other channels that normally have a leucine residue in the analogous position .

Although abnormalities of ion channels are rare causes of diseases of the heart kidney and skeletal muscle KCNC3 was not a likely candidate for a degenerative ataxia as potassium channel mutations are not associated with neurodegeneration but with episodic phenomena such as epilepsy and episodic ataxia. Furthermore KCNC3 deficiency in the mouse did not produce a phenotype.

Unlike other SCA genes implicated in neurodegeneration the physiological functions of Kv3 channels in the cerebellum have been extensively studied and are reasonably well understood. Kv3.3 is expressed in cerebellar granule cells Purkinje cells and deep cerebellar neurons where it may form heteromultimeric channels by co assembly with Kv3.1 and or Kv3.4. In Purkinje cells Kv3 channels are involved in repolarizing both somatic Na spikes and dendritic Ca3 spikes. Kv3 channels are essential for fast spiking in neurons that fire hundreds of action potentials per second with little or no frequency adaptation. Because of their depolarized activation range Kv3 channels open only during action potentials contribute to fast repolarization and thus promote recovery of Na channels from inactivation. Fast deactivation of Kv3 channels limits the time course of the after hyperpolarization thereby shortening the refractory period.

In all likelihood the SCA13 mutations disrupt the firing properties of fast spiking cerebellar neurons. Although the Kv3.3 knock out mouse has no obvious motor phenotype the double Kv3.1 Kv3.3 knock out has dramatic symptoms including tremor and severe ataxia. Because R420H and R417H are expected to suppress the functional expression of Kv3.3 as well as other subunits in the Kv3 family these mutations may be more comparable to the double knockout. Pharmacological suppression of Kv3 activity in cerebellar neurons leads to action potential broadening spike frequency adaptation and spike failure from accumulated Na channel inactivation17. R420H and R417H may have a similar effect. In contrast F448L is predicted to reduce the maximal firing rate of cerebellar neurons. Due to slower closing after hyperpolarization would be prolonged thus delaying the return to threshold and increasing the interspike interval. The differing effects of the mutations at the cellular level are consistent with the contrasting phenotypes in the two pedigrees. Whereas R420H reduces current amplitude with no change in channel properties F448L alters key parameters of gating. The more severe functional alterations of the F448L are consistent with the earlier onset and more static disease course observed in the French pedigree.

The physiological properties of Kv3 channels provide tantalizing clues for potential mechanisms of neurodegeneration. Kv3 channels contribute significantly to the repolarization of dendritic Ca2 spikes in Purkinje cells. Longer duration spikes would increase Ca2 influx which may contribute to neuronal death. Additionally the functional properties of Kv3.3 and Kv3.4 channels are modulated by reactive oxygen species. Mutant Kv3.3 subunits may affect the ability of cerebellar neurons to cope with oxidative stress. Finally morphological differentiation and the development of hallmark electrical properties are tightly linked in Purkinje cells. This raises the possibility that morphological and electrical maturation are interdependent phenomena. Mutations that disrupt acquisition of appropriate electrical characteristics may cause subtle developmental defects that reduce the long term viability of the neurons.

The results provided herein point to voltage gated potassium channels as valid candidates for genes involved in phenotypes ranging from developmental disorders to late onset neurodegenerative disease. It is likely that in vivo systems will be able to assess the consequences of mutant KCNC3 on three distinct but interrelated functions cerebellar development cerebellar function in the mature organism and the role of proper channel function preventing neuronal death. Both mutations show some intra familial phenotypic variability highlighting the importance of compensatory mechanisms and the likely presence of other genetic and environmental modifiers. Further understanding of the role of voltage gated K channels in cerebellar degeneration may lead to therapies aimed at modulating channel function not only to restore cerebellar function but also to reduce neurodegeneration.

Patients. A large Filipino family segregating a dominant trait for cerebellar ataxia was available for examination. There are eleven affected individuals spanning three generations. The living affecteds include the matriarch eight individuals in generation two and three individuals in generation three. In addition there are five unaffected individuals in generation two with one presumed unaffected and thirty nine at risk individuals in generation three who have not yet been examined. After written informed consent was obtained blood was collected and DNA extracted from fifteen family members. One affected individual from generation three was available for brain CT imaging.

Mutation and linkage analyses. Mutations in SCA1 2 3 6 7 8 12 17 and DRPLA genes were eliminated as potential etiologies by direct PCR analysis Pulst S M. Neurogenetics single gene disorders. J Neurol Neurosurg Psych 2003 74 1608 1614 . For SCA10 which has an expansion mutation that cannot be amplified by PCR two normal alleles were observed in all affected individuals Matsuura T Yamagata T Burgess D L et al. Large expansion of the ATTCT pentanucleotide repeat in spinocerebellar ataxia type 10. Nat Genet 2000 26 2 191 194 . Linkage to loci for SCA5 11 13 14 16 18 19 21 23 and 25 were excluded by the observation of recombination events in close proximity to these loci.

In the genome wide screen for linkage a total of 377 fluorescent tagged microsatellite markers in the human ABI Linkage Set v2.5 were utilized. These markers cover the entire genome with an average inter marker genetic distance of 10 cM. Markers were run on an ABI 3100 using a capillary system.

To evaluate linkage in the 19q13 region additional screening was done on the matriarch eight affecteds and five unaffecteds in generation two and three affected individuals in generation three as previously described Zu L Figueroa K P Grewal R Pulst S M. Mapping of a new autosomal dominant spinocerebellar ataxia to chromosome 22. Am J Hum Genet 1999 64 2 594 599 . High resolution mapping was performed utilizing dinucleotide repeat markers obtained in the region of 19q13 from the Ensembl genome browser http www.ensembl.org Jan. 15 2005 .

PCR was performed in a 20 l reaction containing 100 ng of genomic DNA template 100 pmol of each primer 2.5 mM each dNTP 2.5 mM MgC12 0.25 U Taq polymerase and buffer supplied by the vendor. The upstream primer was end labeled with P ATP utilizing T4 Polynucleotide Kinase Promega catalog M4101 according to the manufacturer s instructions prior to PCR. The reaction conditions were as follows initial denaturation at 95 C. for five minutes 35 cycles of denaturing at 95 C. for 30 s annealing at 62 C. for 30 s and extension at 72 C. for 40 s and a final extension at 72 C. for ten minutes. The entire reaction was performed in an M.J. Research PTC 200 thermocycler. The PCR products were analyzed by electrophoresis on a 6 denaturing polyacrylamide gel National Diagnostics Atlanta Ga. on an IBI BaseRunner 200 sequencer. Gels were exposed to Hyperfilm MP Amersham Biosciences England and developed with a Kodak X Omat automated processor.

Statistical analysis. Pair wise and multi point linkage analyses were performed with Genehunter Kruglyak L Lander E S. Faster multipoint linkage analysis using Fourier transformations J Comput Biol 1998 5 1 7 Kruglyak L Daly M J Reeve Daly M P Lander E S. Parametric and nonparametric linkage analysis a unified multipoint approach. Am J Hum Genet 1996 58 1347 1363 under the assumption of autosomal dominant inheritance and a disease allele frequency of 0.001 with penetrance set at 95 or 99 . The program size parameter max bits was fixed so that all genotyped subjects were included in the analyses. Genehunter also generated nonparametric results which were not substantively different from the parametric results presented here.

Results. Clinical features of the family. Nineteen individuals in the extended kindred were examined. Ten clinically affecteds from three generations were available for examination. The proband an 82 year old female is the oldest affected with disease onset at age 60 years. She has twelve living children seven females of which four are affected and five males of which three are affected. The seven affected offspring in generation two are between 46 and 65 years old with age of onset ranging from 22 to 48 years mean 36.4 years . The third generation has three affected individuals with mean onset at age 24.5 years. This includes a 30 year old female onset age 26 25 year old male and a newly symptomatic male onset ages 23 and 22 respectively . Cerebellar signs noted among the ten affecteds included gait ataxia limb ataxia dysmetria titubation hypotonia dysarthria and nystagmus. Two have mild symmetric hyper reflexia with no Babinski sign. Duration of disease ranges from 1 43 years with a mean of 13 years. The three oldest affecteds have the most severe ataxia 2 are wheelchair bound with a disease duration of 24 43 and 34 years respectively. CT brain imaging performed within the first year of symptoms of the 30 year old third generation female demonstrated mild cerebellar atrophy.

Exclusion of known loci. DNA repeat expansion mutations in SCA1 2 3 6 7 8 12 17 and DRPLA were excluded by direct PCR analysis. Pentanucleotide repeat expansions in the SCA10 gene were excluded by demonstration of heterozygosity for two normal alleles in affecteds. Other SCA loci were excluded by linkage analysis. This included analysis with markers linked to SCA5 11 13 14 16 18 19 21 23 and 25. For each locus at least one recombination event was observed within the linked region and for markers flanking the region.

Genome wide screen. Due to the structure of the pedigree approximately 15 of markers were non informative as heterozygosity in individual I 2 was required for informativeness in generation II. Given this limitation the results of the initial scan left several large gaps in the genome due to adjacent non informative markers. Therefore four genome areas chromosomes 1 14 19 and 22 were further screened with CA repeat markers obtained from the Ensembl Genome Browser http www.ensembl.org date of accession Jan. 15 2005 .

After linkage to chromosomes 1 14 and 22 was excluded we re examined linkage to the 19p13 region as the genome scan failed to provide information in a large region defined by D19S902 at 53.02 Mb and D19S210 at 61.71 Mb. This region was of interest as spinocerebellar ataxia type 13 had previously been mapped to 19q13.3 q13.4 in a large French family Herman Bert A Stevanin G Netter J C et al. Mapping of spinocerebellar ataxia 13 to chromosome 19q13.3 q13.4 in a family with autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia and mental retardation. Am J Hum Genet 2000 67 229 235 . Our genome scan identified several recombination events in affected individuals at D19S210 and one recombination in a generation II unaffected individual at marker D19S902.

Haplotypes for additional informative markers are shown in . Several markers including D19S904 showed no recombination events in affected or unaffected individuals. Obligate recombinants were detected for both D19S867 and D19S553. These markers define a physical candidate region of 1 Mb.

The formal multi point linkage analysis is shown in . The LOD 1 drop interval provides a most probable location of the disease gene in a 4 cM region near D19S904.

Discussion. The clinical phenotype of SCA13 is based on observations in one pedigree of French origin Herman Bert A Stevanin G Netter J C et al. Mapping of spinocerebellar ataxia 13 to chromosome 19q13.3 q13.4 in a family with autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia and mental retardation. Am J Hum Genet 2000 67 229 235 . Onset was in childhood and patients had mild mental retardation and a relatively pure cerebellar ataxia with dysarthria nystagmus and discrete pyramidal features. The locus for this SCA spans an 8 cM region on 19q13.3 13.4 from 50.64 56.24 Mb G n thon and Center for Medical Genetics Marshfield Medical Research Foundation genetic maps Dib C Faure S Fizames C et al. A comprehensive genetic map of the human genome based on 5 264 microsatellites. Nature 1996 380 6570 152 4 Broman K W Murray J C Sheffield V C White R L Weber J L. Comprehensive human genetic maps individual and sex specific variation in recombination. Am J Hum Genet 1998 63 3 861 9 . The disease gene in the Filipino pedigree in this report maps to the distal segment of the SCA13 candidate region between genetic markers located at 55.46 and 56.24 Mb of the chromosome 19 genomic sequence.

Though the mechanism for disease in the majority of described SCAs is trinucleotide repeat expansion evidence for clear anticipation is lacking in the description of the French SCA13 pedigree. Furthermore neither rapid expansion detection RED analysis Zander C Thelaus J Lindblad K Karlsson M Sj berg K Schalling M. Multivariate analysis of factors influencing repeat expansion detection. Genome Res 1998 8 1085 1094 or Western blotting with an antibody which selectively recognizes polyglutamine sequences Trottier Y Lutz Y Stevanin G et al. Polyglutamine expansion as a pathological epitope in Huntington s disease and four dominant cerebellar ataxias. Nature 1995 378 403 406 found evidence for CAG expansion commonly seen in diseases with anticipation in SCA13.13 Our Filipino pedigree shows evidence of anticipation with mean age of onset falling from 36 years in generation II to 24 years in generation III. However caution must be exercised in interpreting this finding as the number of observations in the individual pedigree is small. Moreover anticipation has been described in Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia 4 in which the mutational event is not a pathological repeat expansion Raskind W H Pericak Vance M A Lennon F Wolff J Lipe H P Bird T D. Familial spastic paraparesis evaluation of locus heterogeneity anticipation and haplotype mapping of the SPG4 locus on the short arm of chromosome 2. Am J Med Genet 1997 74 1 26 36 . Examination of the approximately million base pair genomic sequence in the region defined by our family also failed to reveal areas of greater than ten uninterrupted CAG repeat tracts.

It was surprising that we had initially excluded the SCA13 locus on CHR19q based on the observation of several recombination events. In retrospect it is evident that the chromosomal region shared by all affected individuals is unusually small. This made initial detection of linkage difficult but resulted in an unusually small candidate region. Genes in the overlapping region defined by us and Herman Bert et al. have been identified as potential candidates. These include genes belonging to families of transcription factors trafficking proteins and ion channels.

Assuming that the French SCA13 mutation and the mutation in the Filipino family are allelic our results would greatly narrow the SCA13 candidate region. However marked differences distinguish the previously described SCA13 phenotype and the phenotype in our pedigree. These include a much lower age of onset in SCA13 and mental retardation described in the French pedigree. In addition there is the suggestion of anticipation in the Filipino family described here. Due to the rather invariant phenotypes described within the two families the favored explanations are mutations in two distinct genes or allelic heterogeneity. Given the size of the SCA13 region it is possible that the causative genes are different in these two conditions. A similar phenomenon has been suggested in SCA15 where several overlapping loci lead to similar though clinically distinct phenotypes Dudding T E Friend K Schofield P W Lee S Wilkinson I A Richards R I. Autosomal dominant congenital non progressive ataxia overlaps with the SCA15 locus. Neurology 2004 63 2288 2292 . Alternatively the phenotypic differences may represent allelic heterogeneity or identical mutations with the observed differences due either to genetic background or environmental factors. Allelic heterogeneity has been well described in SCA14 and includes disparate phenotypes such as early onset with mental retardation and pure late onset cerebellar ataxia reminiscent of the two phenotypes in the French and Filipino pedigrees mapping to 19q13 Stevanin G Hahn V Lohmann E et al. Mutation in the catalytic domain of the protein kinase C and extension of the phenotype associated with spinocerebellar ataxia type 14. Arch Neurol 2004 61 1242 1248 Chen D H Cimino P J Ranum L P W et al. The clinical and genetic spectrum of spinocerebellar ataxia 14. Neurology 2005 64 1258 1260 .

The following examples are provided to better illustrate the claimed invention and are not to be interpreted as limiting the scope of the invention. To the extent that specific materials are mentioned it is merely for the purpose of illustration and is not intended to limit the invention. One skilled in the art may develop equivalent means or reactants without the exercise of inventive capacity and without departing from the scope of the invention.

Patients. A Filipino family segregating a dominant trait for cerebellar ataxia was examined. There were eleven affected individuals including the proband seven individuals in generation two and three individuals in generation three. In addition there were five unaffected individuals in generation two with one unaffected and nineteen at risk individuals in generation three. Blood was collected and DNA extracted from fifteen family members after informed consent was obtained.

Mutation and linkage analyses. To further evaluate linkage in the 19q13 region additional markers were typed in the proband seven affecteds and four unaffecteds in generation two and three affecteds in generation three. High resolution mapping was performed by PCR amplification of dinucleotide repeat markers obtained in the region of 19q13 from the Ensembl genome browser release 31.35d . The PCR products were analyzed by electrophoresis on a 6 denaturing polyacrylamide gel.

Sequence analysis. DNA sequencing was performed using the ABI Foster City Calif. BigDye Terminator v3.1 cycle sequencing kit and the following protocol. To 5 ng 5 l purified PCR amplicon 4 l reaction pre mix 2 l 5 sequencing buffer 3.2 pmol 2 l appropriate primer and 7 l deinonized water were added to a 96 well microtitre plate and transferred to PCR thermocycler MJ Research PTC 200 and cycled as follows 1 96 C. for 1 minute 2 96 C. for 10 seconds to 50 C. for 5 seconds to 60 C. for 4 minutes 25 cycles. Sequencing products were then purified using ABI Centri Sep spin columns. Resuspended samples were then electrophoresed on a 4.5 acrylamide gel in an ABI 377 DNA sequencer according to the manufacture s protocol. All sequences were analyzed using BioEdit s biological sequence alignment editor version 5.0.9.1.

A three generation Filipino family segregating a dominant ataxia with prominent cerebellar signs and symptoms as well as cerebellar atrophy on MR imaging was identified. The clinical and imaging phenotypes were typical of degenerative SCAs. A genome wide linkage scan revealed a disease locus in a 4 cM region of 19q13 with a 3.89 LOD score. This region partially overlapped the SCA13 locus Herman Bert A. et al. Mapping of spinocerebellar ataxia 13 to chromosome 19q13.3 q13.4 in a family with autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia and mental retardation. Am. J. Hum. Genet. 67 229 235 2000 though the Filipino phenotype was clinically distinguishable from SCA13. For high resolution mapping novel dinucleotide markers from the Ensembl genome browser release 31.35d were generated. The linkage region was reduced to 900K bases. Haplotypes for the novel markers are shown in . Several markers including D19S904 showed no recombination events. Obligate recombinants were detected for both D19S867 and D19S553 which defined a physical candidate region with the LOD 1 drop interval providing a probable location of the disease gene near D19S904. This region contained approximately forty candidate genes including KCNC3. Direct sequencing revealed two missense mutations in exon 2. The Filipino pedigree contained 1554G A encoding R420H in the third conserved arginine residue in S4 . The French pedigree contained 1639C A encoding F448L near the cytoplasmic end of S5 .

Among voltage gated K channels the functional properties of Kv3 channels are distinct. Kv3 channels activate in a more depolarized range and close much more rapidly compared to other Kv channels Rudy B. McBain C. J. Kv3 channels voltage gated K channels designed for high frequency repetitive firing. Trends Neurosci. 9 517 526 2001 . These properties facilitate high frequency firing of action potentials with little or no adaptation a characteristic of neuronal populations found in the mammalian neocortex hippocampus auditory nuclei and cerebellum. Like other voltage gated K channels Kv3 channels are tetramers. Different Shaw family subunits are able to co assemble with each other but not with subunits from other Kv subfamilies Covarrubias M. Wei A. Salkoff L. Shaker Shal Shab and Shaw express independent K current systems. Neuron 7 763 773 1991 Shen N. V. Pfaffinger P. J. Molecular recognition and assembly sequences involved in the subfamily specific assembly of voltage gated K channel subunit proteins. Neuron 14 625 633 1995 .

Each subunit has six transmembrane segments and a re entrant loop . The first four transmembrane segments S1 S4 constitute the voltage sensor domain whereas the last two segments S5 and S6 and the re entrant loop form the ion selective pore Long S. B. Campbell E. B. MacKinnon R. Crystal structure of a mammalian voltage dependent Shaker family K channel. Science 309 897 890 2005 . The Filipino mutation is located in S4 the main voltage sensing element and changes one of the multiple positively charged residues that respond to changes in membrane potential Aggarwal S. K. MacKinnon R. Contribution of the S4 segment to gating charge in the Shaker K channel. Neuron 16 1169 1177 1996 Seoh S. A. Sigg D. Papazian D. M. Bezanilla F. Voltage sensing residues in the S2 and S4 segments of the Shaker K channel. Neuron 16 1159 1167 1996 .

The French mutation is in the cytoplasmic end of S5 which is involved in coupling voltage sensor conformational changes with opening and closing of the pore Shieh C. C. Klemic K. G. Kirsch G. E. Role of transmembrane segment S5 on gating of voltage dependent K channels. J. Gen. Physiol. 109 767 778 1997 . The depolarized voltage dependence and rapid deactivation that are characteristic of Kv3 channels are related properties conferred by specific amino acid residues in the voltage sensor and S5 Smith Maxwell C. J. Ledwell J. L. Aldrich R. W. Uncharged S4 residues and cooperativity in voltage dependent potassium channel activation. J. Gen. Physiol. 111 421 439 1998 . Importantly KCNC3 protein sequences in S4 and S5 are 100 conserved amongst phyla suggesting strong selection for the specialized role of these channels . Consistent with this observation screening over four hundred alleles from normal individuals of Filipino or Anglo European descent revealed no polymorphisms at either site but revealed an additional mutation R417H also mapping to the S4 segment of KCNC3 involved in neurodegenerative ataxia.

To investigate the functional consequences of the SCA 13 mutations wildtype and mutant KCNC3 alleles were expressed in oocytes and channel activity was recorded using a two electrode voltage clamp. Activation of the wild type Kv3.3 channel was detected at 10 mV and more positive potentials . Upon repolarization to 90 mV the channel closed quickly. In contrast expression of R420H resulted in no detectable channel activity . Co expression of wildtype Kv3.3 and R420H subunits led to suppression of current amplitude consistent with a dominant negative effect . R420H did not suppress the expression of Shaker a member of the Kv1 family . These results indicated that Kv3 subfamily specific co assembly of wildtype and mutant subunits produced non functional channels.

Electrophysiology. The coding region of a human Kv3.3 cDNA clone Rae J. L. Shepard A. R. Kv3.3 potassium channels in lens epithelium and corneal endothelium. Exp. Eye. Res. 70 339 348 2000 was transferred into the Bluescript II SK vector. RNA was transcribed and injected into oocytes for two electrode voltage clamp analysis using standard methods Silverman W. R. Tang C. Y. Mock A. F. Huh K. B. Papazian D. M. Mg 2 modulates voltage dependent activation in ether a go go potassium channels by binding between transmembrane segments S2 and S3. J. Gen. Physiol. 116 663 677 2000 . Currents were recorded 48 to 72 h post injection in a bath solution containing 4 mM KCl 85 mM NaCl 1.8 mM CaCl 10 mM HEPES pH 7.2. To record tail currents the bath solution was switched to 89 mM RbCl 2.4 mM NaHCO 0.82 mM Ca NO 0.41 mM CaCl 10 mM HEPES pH 7.2. For dominant negative experiments 1 ng of Kv3.3 or Shaker IR RNA was injected in the absence or presence of the indicated ratio of mutant RNA.

Results Expression of F448L produced channels with altered gating. Activation of F448L was detected at 20 mV compared to 10 mV for wildtype . Analysis of the probability of opening as a function of voltage confirmed that activation was shifted 13 mV toward the hyperpolarized direction . Activation kinetics of F448L and wildtype were similar at voltages where both have a maximal open probability . However deactivation kinetics of F448L were dramatically slower. Tail currents were recorded after repolarization to 90 mV using an 89 mM Rb bath solution and fitted with a single exponential component . This revealed a 7 fold slowing of channel closure in the F448L channel. The hyperpolarized shift in the probability of opening and the slower rate of deactivation are related findings indicating that F448L increases the relative stability of the open state. F448L makes the properties of Kv3.3 channels more similar to those of Shaker and other channels that normally have a leucine residue in the analogous position .

Although abnormalities of ion channels are rare causes of diseases of the heart kidney and skeletal muscle Graves T. D. Hanna M. G. Neurological channelopathies. Postgrad. Med. J. 81 20 32 2005 Dworakowska B. Dolowy K. Ion channels related diseases. Acta Bioch. Pol. 47 685 703 2000 KCNC3 was not a likely candidate for a degenerative ataxia as potassium channel mutations are not associated with neurodegeneration but with episodic phenomena such as epilepsy and episodic ataxia. Furthermore KCNC3 deficiency in the mouse did not produce a phenotype Espinosa F. et al. Alcohol hypersensitivity increased locomotion and spontaneous myoclonus in mice lacking the potassium channels Kv3.1 and Kv3.3. J. Neurosci. 21 6657 6665 2001 .

Unlike other SCA genes implicated in neurodegeneration the physiological functions of Kv3 channels in the cerebellum have been extensively studied and are reasonably well understood Martina M. Yao G. L. Bean B. P. Properties and functional role of voltage dependent potassium channels in dendrites of rat cerebellar Purkinje neurons. J. Neurosci. 23 5698 5707 2003 McKay B. E. Turner R. W. Kv3 K channels enable burst output in rat cerebellar Purkinje cells. Eur. J. Neurosci. 20 729 739 2004 . Kv3.3 is expressed in cerebellar granule cells Purkinje cells and deep cerebellar neurons where it may form heteromultimeric channels by co assembly with Kv3.1 and or Kv3.4 Goldman Wohl D. S. Chan E. Baird D. Heintz N. Kv3.3b a novel Shaw type potassium channel expressed in terminally differentiated cerebellar Purkinje cells and deep cerebellar nuclei. J. Neurosci. 14 511 522 1994 Weiser M. et al. Differential expression of Shaw related K channels in the rat central nervous system. J. Neurosci. 14 949 972 1994 . In Purkinje cells Kv3 channels are involved in repolarizing both somatic Na spikes and dendritic Ca spikes. Kv3 channels are essential for fast spiking in neurons that fire hundreds of action potentials per second with little or no frequency adaptation. Because of their depolarized activation range Kv3 channels open only during action potentials contribute to fast repolarization and thus promote recovery of Na channels from inactivation. Fast deactivation of Kv3 channels limits the time course of the after hyperpolarization thereby shortening the refractory period.

In all likelihood the SCA13 mutations disrupt the firing properties of fast spiking cerebellar neurons. Although the Kv3.3 knock out mouse has no obvious motor phenotype the double Kv3.1 Kv3.3 knock out has dramatic symptoms including tremor and severe ataxia. Because R420H is expected to suppress the functional expression of Kv3.3 as well as other subunits in the Kv3 family this mutation may be more comparable to the double knockout. Pharmacological suppression of Kv3 activity in cerebellar neurons leads to action potential broadening spike frequency adaptation and spike failure from accumulated Na channel inactivation. R420H and R417H may have a similar effect. In contrast F448L is predicted to reduce the maximal firing rate of cerebellar neurons. Due to slower closing after hyperpolarization would be prolonged thus delaying the return to threshold and increasing the interspike interval. The differing effects of the mutations at the cellular level are consistent with the contrasting phenotypes in the two pedigrees. Whereas R420H reduces current amplitude with no change in channel properties F448L alters key parameters of gating. The more severe functional alterations of the F448L are consistent with the earlier onset and more static disease course observed in the French pedigree.

The physiological properties of Kv3 channels provide tantalizing clues for potential mechanisms of neurodegeneration. Kv3 channels contribute significantly to the repolarization of dendritic Ca spikes in Purkinje cells. Longer duration spikes would increase Ca influx which may contribute to neuronal death. Additionally the functional properties of Kv3.3 and Kv3.4 channels are modulated by reactive oxygen species Ruppersberg J. P. et al. Regulation of fast inactivation of cloned mammalian IK A channels by cysteine oxidation. Nature 352 711 714 1991 Vega Saenz de Miera E and Rudy B 1992 Biochem Biophys Res Comm 186 1681 1687 Duprat F. Susceptibility of cloned K channels to reactive oxygen species. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 92 11796 11800 1995 . Mutant Kv3.3 subunits may affect the ability of cerebellar neurons to cope with oxidative stress. Finally morphological differentiation and the development of hallmark electrical properties are tightly linked in Purkinje cells. This raises the possibility that morphological and electrical maturation are interdependent phenomena McKay B. E. Turner R. W. Physiological and morphological development of the rat cerebellar Purkinje cell. J. Physiol. epub ahead of print 2005 . Mutations that disrupt acquisition of appropriate electrical characteristics may cause subtle developmental defects that reduce the long term viability of the neurons.

Our results point to voltage gated potassium channels as valid candidates for genes involved in phenotypes ranging from developmental disorders to late onset neurodegenerative disease. It is likely that in vivo systems will be required to assess the consequences of mutant KCNC3 on three distinct but interrelated functions cerebellar development cerebellar function in the mature organism and the role of proper channel function preventing neuronal death. Both mutations show some intra familial phenotypic variability highlighting the importance of compensatory mechanisms and the likely presence of other genetic and environmental modifiers. Further understanding of the role of voltage gated K channels in cerebellar degeneration may lead to therapies aimed at modulating channel function not only to restore cerebellar function but also to reduce neurodegeneration.

Potassium channels are ubiquitous in nature and play significant roles in nerve and muscle tissue electrical excitability in mammals. Potassium channelopathies are known to cause episodic neurological diseases in humans. The present invention has identified mutations in the voltage gated potassium channel KCNC3 Kv3.3 which cause the neurodevelopmental degenerative disorder SCA13. One mutation located in the voltage sensing domain causes a dominant negative effect. A second mutation located in the domain effecting voltage sensor conformational changes conferring pore opening and closing shifts the activation curve more negative and slows channel closing. This characterization expands the role of potassium channels in neurological diseases and suggests their importance in both neurodevelopment and neurodegeneration.

Potassium channels influence many aspects of electrical excitability in nerve and muscle and mutations in their genes have been described in episodic neurological diseases. The present invention now demonstrates that K channel mutations also cause a neurodevelopmental degenerative disease spinocerebellar ataxia. In a Filipino pedigree with adult onset ataxia the causative gene maps to 19g13 overlapping the SCA 13 locus previously described in a French pedigree with childhood onset mental retardation ataxia and seizures. This region contains KCNC3 K0.3 which encodes a voltage gated Shaw potassium channel with enriched cerebellar expressions. Sequencing KCNC3 revealed mutations 1554G A R420H in the Filipino and 1639C A F448L in the French pedigrees. Both mutations alter KCNC3 function in the oocyte expression system. KCNC3 R420H located in the voltage sensor of the channel has no detectable channel activity when expressed alone and a strong dominant negative effect when co expressed with wildtype KCNC3. KCNC3 F448L shifts the activation curve in the negative direction and slows channel closing by 7 fold. Thus R420H and F448L mutations are expected to change the output characteristics of fast spiking cerebellar neurons where KCNC channels confer capacity for high frequency firing. The present invention has identified voltage gated potassium channels as valid candidates for genes involved in phenotypes ranging from developmental disorders to adult onset neurodegeneration.

Dominant spinocerebellar ataxias SCA are heterogeneous neurological diseases with phenotypes consisting of cerebellar ataxia extrapyramidal signs dysarthria oculomotor abnormalities motor neuron signs cognitive decline epilepsy autonomic dysfunction sensory deficits and psychiatric manifestations. Twenty six SCA loci are described and for ten the causative gene or mutation has been determined. Little is known about the normal function of most SCA genes though the majority represent polyglutamine polyQ expansion diseases.

A three generation Filipino family segregating an adult onset dominant ataxia with prominent cerebellar signs and symptomsas well as cerebellar atrophy on magnetic resonance imaging has previously been identified. The clinical and imaging phenotypes were typical of degenerative SCAs. A genome wide linkage scan revealed a disease locus in a 4 cM region of 19g13 with a 3.89 LOD score. This region partially overlapped the SCA13locusmapped in a French pedigree with mild mental retardation early onset ataxia and slow progression though the Filipino phenotype was clinically distinguishable from SCA 13. Through high resolution mapping the linkage region was reduced to 900K bases. Haplotypes are shown in .

Several markers showed no recombination events. Obligate recombinants were detected for both DI 9S867 and DI 9S553 which defined a physical candidate region with the LOD 1 drop interval providing a probable location of the disease gene near D19S904. This region contained approximately forty candidate genes including KCNC3.

Among voltage gated K channels the functional properties of Kv3 channels are distinct. Kv3 channels activate in a more depolarized range and close much more rapidly than other Kv channels 10. These properties facilitate high frequency firing of action potentials with little or no adaptation a characteristic of neuronal populations found in the mammalian neocortex hippocampus auditory nuclei and cerebellum. Like other voltage gated K channels Kv3 channels are tetramers. Different Shaw family subunits are able to co assemble with each other though not with subunits from other Kv subfamilies. Each subunit has six transmembrane segments and a re entrant loop . The first four transmembrane segments S1 S4 constitute the voltage sensor domain whereas the last two segments S5 and S6 and the re entrant loop form the ion selective pore. The depolarized voltage dependence and rapid deactivation that are characteristic of Kv3 channels are related properties conferred by specific amino acid residues in the voltage sensor and S5. The Filipino mutation E is located in S4 the main voltage sensing element and changes one of the positively charged residues that respond to changes in membrane potential. The French mutation is at the cytoplasmic end of S5 which is involved in coupling voltage sensor conformational changes with opening and closing of the pore. These mutations leading to highly penetrant phenotypes were identified in all affected individuals though not in clinically normal family members. Consistent with this observation screening over four hundred alleles from normal individuals of Filipino or Anglo European descent revealed no polymorphisms at either site. Importantly KCNC amino acid sequences in S4 and S5 are 100 conserved amongst phyla suggesting strong selection for the highly specialized role of these channels .

To investigate the functional consequences of the SCA13 mutations wildtype and mutant KCNC3 alleles were expressed in oocytes and channel activity was recorded using a two electrode voltage clamp. Activation of the wildtype Kv3.3 channel was detected at 10 mV and more positive potentials . Upon repolarization to 90 mV the channel closed quickly. In contrast expression of R420H resulted in no detectable channel activity . Co expression of wildtype Kv3.3 and R420H subunits led to suppression of current amplitude consistent with a dominant negative effect . R420H did not suppress the functional expression of Shaker a member of the Kv1 family . These results indicated that Kv3 subfamily specific co assembly of wildtype and mutant subunits produced non functional channels.

Expression of F448L produced channels with altered gating. Activation of F448L was detected at 20 mV compared to 10 mV for wildtype . Analysis of the probability of opening as a function of voltage confirmed that activation was shifted 13 mV toward the hyperpolarized direction . Activation kinetics of F448L and wildtype were similar at voltages where both have a maximal open probability . However deactivation kinetics of F448L were dramatically slower. Tail currents were recorded after repolarization to 90 mV using an 89 mM Rb bath solution and fitted with a single exponential component . This revealed a 7 fold slowing of channel closure in F448L. The hyperpolarized shift in the probability of opening and the slower rate of deactivation are related findings indicating that F448L increases the relative stability of the open state. F448L makes the properties of Kv3.3 channels more similar to those of Shaker and other channels that normally have a leucine residue in the analogous position .

Unlike other genes implicated in spinocerebellar ataxias the physiological functions of Kv3 channels in the cerebellum have been extensively studied and are reasonably well understood. Kv3.3 is expressed in cerebellar granule cells Purkinje cells and deep cerebellar neurons where it may form heteromultimeric channels by co assembly with Kv3.1 and or Kv3.4. In Purkinje cells Kv3 channels are involved in repolarizing both somatic Na spikes and dendritic Ca2 spikes. Kv3 channels including KCNC1 Kv3.1 KCNC2 Kv3.2 KCNC3 Kv3.3 and KCNC4 Kv3.4 are essential for fast spiking in neurons that fire hundreds of action potentials per second with little or no frequency adaptation. Because of their depolarized activation range Kv3 channels open only during action potentials contribute to fast repolarization and thus promote recovery of Na channels from inactivation. Fast deactivation of Kv3 channels limits the time course of the after hyperpolarization thereby shortening the refractory period.

In all likelihood the SCA13 mutations disrupt the firing properties of fast spiking cerebellar neurons. Although the Kv3.3 knock out mouse has no obvious motor phenotype the double Kv3.1 Kv3.3 knock out has dramatic symptoms including tremor and severe ataxia. Because R420H is expected to suppress the functional expression of Kv3.3 as well as other subunits in the Kv3 family this mutation may be more comparable to the double knockout. Pharmacological suppression of Kv3 activity in cerebellar neurons leads to action potential broadening spike frequency adaptation and spike failure from accumulated Na channel inactivation. R420H may have a similar effect. In contrast F448L is predicted to reduce the maximal firing rate of cerebellar neurons. Due to slower closing after hyperpolarization would be prolonged thus delaying the return to threshold and increasing the interspike interval. The differing effects of the mutations at the cellular level may portend the contrasting phenotypes between the two pedigrees.

The physiological properties of Kv3 channels provide tantalizing clues for potential mechanisms of neurodegeneration. Kv3 channels contribute significantly to the repolarization of dendritic Ca2 spikes in Purkinje cells. Longer duration spikes would increase Cat influx which may contribute to neuronal death. Additionally the functional properties of Kv3.3 and Kv3.4 channels are modulated by reactive oxygen species.

Mutant Kv3.3 subunits may affect the ability of cerebellar neurons to cope with oxidative stress. Finally morphological differentiation and the development of hallmark electrical properties are tightly linked in Purkinje cells. This raises the possibility that morphological and electrical maturation are interdependent phenomena. Mutations that disrupt acquisition of appropriate electrical characteristics may cause subtle developmental defects that reduce the long term viability of the neurons.

The present invention identifies KCNC3 mutations as causative for SCA13 and demonstrates to the importance of voltage gated potassium channels in phenotypes ranging from developmental disorders to late onset neurodegenerative disease. It is likely that in vivo systems will be able to assess the consequences of mutant KCNC3 on three distinct but interrelated functions cerebellar development cerebellar function in the mature organism and the role of proper channel function preventing neuronal death. Both mutations show some intra familial phenotypic variability highlighting the importance of compensatory mechanisms and the likely presence of other genetic and environmental modifiers. Further understanding of the role of voltage gated K channels in cerebellar degeneration may lead to therapies aimed at modulating channel function to both restore cerebellar function and reduce neurodegeneration.

Patients. A Filipino family segregating a dominant trait for cerebellar ataxia was examined. There are eleven affected individuals including the proband seven individuals in generation two and three individuals in generation three. In addition there are five unaffected individuals in generation two with one unaffected and nineteen at risk individuals in generation three. Blood was collected and DNA extracted from fifteen family members after informed consent was obtained.

Mutation and linkage analyses. To further evaluate linkage in the 19q13 region additional markers were typed in the proband seven affecteds and four unaffecteds in generation two and three affecteds in generation three. High resolution mapping was performed by PCR amplification of dinucleotide repeat markers obtained in the region of 19g13 from the Ensembl genome browser release 31.35d . The PCR products were analyzed by electrophoresis on a 6 denaturing polyacrylamide gel.

Sequence analysis. DNA sequencing was performed using the ABI Foster City Calif. BigDye Terminator v3.1 cycle sequencing kit and the following protocol. To 5 ng 5 ml purified PCR amplicon 4 ml reaction pre mix 2 ml 5 sequencing buffer 3.2 pmol 2 ml appropriate primer and 7 ml deinonized water were added to a 96 well microtitre plate and transferred to PCR thermocycler MJ Research PTC 200 and cycled as follows 1 96 C. for 1 minute 2 96 C. for 10 seconds to 50 C. for 5 seconds to 60 C. for 4 minutes 25 cycles 3 .

Electrophysiology. The coding region of human Kv3.3 cDNA clone was transferred into the Bluescript II SK vector. RNA was transcribed and injected into oocytes for two electrode voltage clamp analysis using standard methods28. Currents were recorded 48 to 72 h post injection in a bath solution containing 4 mM KCl 85 mM NaCl 1.8 mM CaCl 10 mM HEPES pH 7.2. To record tail currents the bath solution was switched to 89 mM RbCI 2.4 mM NaHCO3 0.82 mM Ca NO3 2 0.41 mM CaCl 10 mM HEPES pH 7.2. For dominant negative experiments 1 ng of Kv3.3 or Shaker IR RNA was injected in the absence or presence of the indicated ratio of mutant RNA.

