---

title: Electrode materials and lithium battery systems
abstract: A material comprising a lithium titanate comprising a plurality of primary particles and secondary particles, wherein the average primary particle size is about 1 nm to about 500 nm and the average secondary particle size is about 1 μm to about 4 μm. In some embodiments the lithium titanate is carbon-coated. Also provided are methods of preparing lithium titanates, and devices using such materials.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07968231&OS=07968231&RS=07968231
owner: U Chicago Argonne, LLC
number: 07968231
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060531
---
This application is based upon and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 753 575 filed on Dec. 23 2005 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. W 31 109 ENG 38 awarded by the Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

In general the present invention relates to electrode materials for high energy storage especially energy storage systems such as lithium secondary batteries and hybrid super capacitors. In particular lithium titanates and carbon coated lithium titanate materials processes of making the same and the use of these materials as negative electrodes in high power and high energy lithium battery systems are provided. Also provided are processes for producing particles of LiTiOand carbon coated LiTiO C LiTiO and processes for coating both primary and secondary particles of LiTiOwith carbon using gas decomposition techniques.

Rechargeable lithium ion batteries have become an important source of power for many applications due to their relatively low mass and high energy density. Rechargeable lithium ion batteries have potential use as high power devices in large scale applications such as electric vehicles EV and hybrid electric vehicles HEV .

Graphite LiCoOis the most commonly used electrochemical couple in lithium ion batteries where the LiCoOis at the cathode and the graphite is at the anode. Current commercially available lithium ion batteries exhibit several weaknesses including 

To overcome thermal runaway battery manufacturers may incorporate a variety of components into their Li ion cells including electrolyte additives shutdown separators positive thermal coefficient PTC devices or combinations of these safety components. The high expenses accompanying the introduction of these safety measures in lithium ion batteries will likely reduce the penetration of this technology into industrial applications by cost conscious developers.

In order to cost effectively address the safety limitations of lithium ion cells alternative anodes to graphite have been suggested. Alternatives such as the spinel LiTiO which operates at 1.5 V vs. Li may provide an electrode system with better safety characteristics. Indeed at this voltage the LiTiOanode will not form the conventional SEI films which usually form in graphite because of the reduction of the organic species occurs at potentials less than one volt. In addition unlike graphite anodes no volume change is expected during the insertion of three lithium atoms into the spinel structure of LiTiO which leads to the formation of a rock salt type LiTiOmaterial with a zero strain structural character. Furthermore batteries based on LiTiOshould exhibit good low temperature performance as no lithium plating can occur on LiTiOdue to its potential being 1.5V higher than Li Li. Moreover the material can be coupled with a 4V electrode such as LiCoO LiNiO or LiMnOto provide a system operating at 2.5 V which is twice that of a nickel metal hydride cell.

However anodes based on LiTiOexhibit intrinsically poor electronic conductivity. Practical battery systems require the use of electrodes that have both good ionic conductivity to allow rapid lithium ion diffusion within the host and good electronic conductivity to transfer electrons from the host to the external circuit during the charging and discharging processes.

A need exists for electrode materials for high power and high energy lithium battery systems that can provide high energy and high power with long cycle life and long calendar life without the safety challenges of previously known systems.

In one aspect a material is provided comprising a lithium titanate comprising a plurality of primary particles and secondary particles where the average primary particle size is about 1 nm to about 500 nm and the average secondary particle size is about 1 m to about 4 m. In some embodiments the lithium titanate further comprises a carbon coating. In other embodiments the lithium titanate is LiTiO. In some embodiments the lithium titanate is a nano structured lithium titanate.

In another aspect a method of preparing lithium titanates is provided comprising mixing a source of lithium ions and a source of titanium ions in a solvent removing the solvent to form a solid mixture and calcining the solid mixture. In some embodiments the method further comprises coating the particles of lithium titanate with a layer of carbon. In other embodiments the coating of the particles of lithium titanate with a layer of carbon further comprises exposing the lithium titanate to a carbon source gas in a furnace and heating the carbon source gas to deposit carbon on the lithium titanate.

In another aspect a negative electrode is provided comprising a lithium titanate as embodied herein. In some embodiments the lithium titanate is a carbon coated lithium titanate. In some embodiments the electrode further comprises a current collector and a binder wherein the lithium titanate is coated onto the current collector. In some embodiments the electrode further comprises a high surface area carbon additive wherein the high surface area carbon additive is present from about 0.05 wt to about 15 wt .

In another aspect an electrochemical device is provided comprising a negative electrode as embodied herein a positive electrode and a non aqueous electrolyte. In some embodiments the electrochemical device is a lithium secondary battery and the positive electrode comprises a lithium metal oxide and the positive and negative electrodes are separated from each other by a porous separator.

To overcome the poor electronic conductivity of lithium titanates in particular LiTiO it has been found to be advantageous to reduce the macro size particles of lithium titanates to nano scale dimensions by preparing particles having both primary particles of nanometer size dimensions and secondary particles of micrometer size dimensions whereby the primary particles are building blocks of the secondary particles. As used herein the term nano structured materials refers to such nanometer micrometer sized primary particles. Optionally another way to improve the conductivity of lithium titanates in particular LiTiO is to coat the surface of the LiTiOpowder with a homogenous electronically conductive layer of carbon. As a result of one or both of the homogeneous carbon coating and the nano sized and micrometer sized dimensions a gain in the energy density of electrodes based upon lithium titanates may be achieved as compared to conventional electrodes.

In one aspect a material is provided comprising a lithium titanate comprising a plurality of primary and secondary particles wherein the primary particles have an average size from about 1 nm to about 500 nm and the secondary particles have an average size from less than about 1 m to about 4 m. In some embodiments the primary particles have an average size from about 5 nm to about 100 nm and the secondary particles have an average size from less than about 1 m to about 2 m.

In some embodiments the lithium titanate further comprises a carbon coating. The carbon coating may be present at about 20 wt or less in some embodiments or the carbon coating may be present at about 5 wt or less in other embodiments or the carbon coating may be present at about 2 wt or less in yet other embodiments. In some embodiments the lower limit for the carbon coating is about 0.1 wt . Thus in some embodiments the carbon coating is present at from about 0.1 wt to about 20 wt from about 0.1 wt to about 5 wt in other embodiments and from about 0.1 wt to about 2 wt in yet other embodiments. In some embodiments the lithium titanate is LiTiO. In other embodiments the lithium titanate is a nano structured lithium titanate.

In another aspect methods for preparing lithium titanates are provided. In some embodiments a source of lithium ions and a source of titanium ions are mixed in a solvent the solvent is then removed to form a solid mixture and the solid mixture is calcined. Sources of lithium ions that may be used with the present disclosure include but are not limited to lithium oxide lithium peroxide lithium hydroxide lithium carbonate lithium nitrate lithium oxalate lithium acetate lithium chloride lithium fluoride lithium iodide or a mixture of any two or more thereof. Sources of titanium ions that may be used with the present disclosure include but are not limited to titanium oxide anatase titanium oxide rutile an aqueous solution comprising titanium ions such as oxo titanium IV dinitrate hydrate an organic solution comprising titanium ions such as titanium III chloride dimethyl ether complex titanium III chloride tetrahydrofuran complex titanium IV chloride dimethyl ether complex or a mixture of any two or more thereof. Suitable solvents include but are not limited to organic solvents such as a carboxylic acid an alcohol such as methanol ethanol propanol iso propanol an ester such as ethyl acetate and ether such as methyl ether ethyl ether methyl tert butyl ether a ketone such as acetone or methyl tert butyl ketone or a mixture of any two or more thereof. Optionally the solid mixture may be crushed prior to the calcining step to increase the surface area of the solid mixture. As used herein crushed or crushing refers to using ball mills grinders or blenders to reduce the particle size of a material. In some embodiments the calcining is done at from about 600 C. to about 1000 C. to form the lithium titanate embodied above. In some embodiments the lithium titanate that is prepared is LiTiO. In other embodiments the lithium titanate is a nano structured lithium titanate.

In another aspect methods for preparing carbon coated lithium titanates are provided. Some embodiments include preparing the lithium titanate as embodied herein and coating the particles of the lithium titanate with carbon.

Referring to for carbon coating in general an amount of a lithium titanate is first put into a furnace and preheated to a predetermined temperature. A carrier gas and carbon source are then introduced to the furnace through an inlet valve from a carrier gas tank and a carbon source tank . The carbon source decomposes at the temperature of the furnace and any off gas is then exited from the furnace through the outlet valve . Optionally milling material may be added to the furnace to keep the lithium titanate milled into small particles. Such milling material may be selected from any compatible milling material known to those of skill in the art and may include but is not limited to zirconia or yttria balls. In some embodiments the furnace is selected from a rotary furnace a fluidized bed furnace or a static furnace. The carrier gas is typically selected from but is not limited to carbon dioxide inert gases including nitrogen helium argon or a mixture of any two or more thereof. Carbon sources suitable for use in the embodied methods and materials generally decompose between about 100 C. and about 1300 C. to generate carbon and off gases. Carbon sources may typically be selected from materials having from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms including but not limited to acetylene butane 1 3 butadiene 1 butene cis 2 butene trans 2 butene 2 2 dimethylpropane ethane ethylene hexane heptane isobutane isobutylene methane 2 methylbutane pentane propane propylene octane toluene and or mixtures of any two or more thereof. In some embodiments the coating of particles of lithium titanate with carbon is achieved with a furnace temperature from about 400 C. to about 1200 C. in the presence of a gaseous mixture comprising a carbon source and a mixture of inert gas and CO.

In some embodiments COgas is used as a carrier gas for coating lithium titanate materials that are not stable to reducing atmospheres. When hydrocarbons are decomposed at elevated furnace temperatures both hydrogen and elemental carbon are generated Equation 1 . CHC 2H Equation 1 The elemental carbon is then deposited on the surface of the metal oxide at the elevated furnace temperature resulting in the generation of carbon monoxide until equilibrium is reached as shown in Equation 2. MOCMOCO Equation 2 With both hydrogen and carbon monoxide present in the off gas in the furnace a reforming reaction occurs regenerating elemental carbon from the carbon monoxide Equation 3 which in turn can act to reduce more metal oxide and drive the equilibrium reaction further to the reduced metal oxide as in Equation 2. CO HC HO Equation 3 The use of COas a carrier gas may alleviate the hydrogen generation problem. In some embodiments the use of COas a carrier gas allows for the carbon coating of lithium titanates and any other metal oxides or lithium metal oxides that are otherwise easily reduced such as but not limited to LiCoO LiNiO LiNiCoMetO LiMnNiO LiMnCoNiO LiMnO LiMnB O LiFeO LiMet MnO vanadium oxide or a mixture of any two or more thereof wherein Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Mn or Co Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Ni or Co B is Ni Co Zn or Cu and wherein 0

In one aspect methods for preparing carbon coated lithium titanates are provided comprising exposing a lithium titanate to a carbon source in a furnace and heating the carbon source to deposit carbon on the lithium titanate. In some embodiments the carbon source is mixed with CO. In some embodiments the lithium titanate is LiTiO. In some embodiments the heating is from about 100 C. to about 1300 C. In other embodiments the heating is from about 400 C. to about 700 C. In some embodiments heating is continued until the amount of carbon coating in the carbon coated lithium titanate is about 20 wt or less. In some embodiments the amount of carbon coating in the carbon coated lithium titanate is from about 0.2 wt to about 20 wt . In other embodiments heating is continued until the amount of carbon coating in the carbon coated lithium titanate is about 5 wt or less. In yet other embodiments heating is continued until the amount of carbon coating in the carbon coated lithium titanate is 2 wt or less.

Carbon coating of metal oxides generally described it is illustrative to discuss a non limiting example of the method for carbon coating of metal oxides or other lithium titanates. LiTiOis placed in a quartz rotary furnace which is then preheated to approximately 700 C. A mixture of 97 COgas and 3 propylene by weight is then introduced to the quartz rotary furnace at 700 C. The flow of the carbon source gas and carrier gas are determined based on the expected LiTiO carbon ratio and may need to be determined experimentally. The decomposition process or cracking of propylene begins at around 400 C. therefore the temperature for carbon coating of the LiTiOwith propane may be chosen to be from about 400 C. to about 700 C. Other carbon source gases may require higher or lower temperatures depending on the cracking temperatures and it is well within the skill in the art to select the appropriate temperature for the carbon source used. As the carbon source gas enters the furnace chamber the propane is decomposed to Cand H. The Cthen forms a homogenous layer on the LiTiO. Alternatively a mixture of two or more carbon source gases may be used and each may have a different cracking temperature that will dictate the appropriate temperature range for the coating process. This technique may be used to carbon coat metal oxide materials other than LiTiO and may be used for coating at high temperatures. The temperature limits are bounded by the metal oxide s ability to withstand higher temperatures and the carbon source gas es used.

In another aspect electrodes are provided comprising lithium titanates as embodied herein. In other embodiments the lithium titanate is a carbon coated lithium titanate. In some embodiments the electrode comprises a current collector and a binder wherein the lithium titanate is coated onto the current collector e.g. an aluminum current collector . Binders compatible with the present disclosure include but are not limited to polyvinyldifluoride PVDF . In some embodiments the carbon coated lithium titanate is carbon coated LiTiO. In other embodiments the electrode further comprises a high surface area carbon additive present from about 0.05 wt to about 15 wt . High surface area carbon additives include but are not limited to carbon black and acetylene black. As used herein high surface area carbon additives are those in which the surface area is greater than 60 m g.

In conventional lithium ion cells copper metal foil is typically used as a negative current collector in electrodes due to its good conductivity and electrochemical stability within the operating voltage of the graphite anode. However when negative electrodes made from copper foil and LiTiOare coupled with certain positive electrode materials the copper foil may dissolve in the electrolyte if an over discharge occurs. Such certain positive electrode materials may be selected from but are not limited to materials such as LiCoO LiNiO LiNiCoMetO LiMnNiO LiMnCoNiO LiFePO LiMnO LiMnB O LiFeO LiMet MnO vanadium oxide or a mixture of any two or more thereof wherein Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Mn or Co Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Ni or Co B is Ni Co Zn or Cu and wherein 0

In another aspect electrochemical devices are provided comprising a negative electrode comprising a lithium titanate as embodied herein a positive electrode and a non aqueous electrolyte. In other embodiments the lithium titanate is a carbon coated lithium titanate. In some embodiments the positive and negative electrodes are separated by a porous separator. In some embodiments the carbon coated lithium titanate is carbon coated LiTiO. Positive electrodes compatible with the present disclosure include but are not limited to LiCoO LiNiO LiNiCoMetO LiMnNiO LiMnCoNiO LiFePO LiMnO LiMnB O LiFeO LiMet MnO vanadium oxide or a mixture of any two or more thereof wherein Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Mn or Co Met is Al Mg Ti B Ga Si Ni or Co B is Ni Co Zn or Cu and wherein 0

In another aspect additives as disclosed in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 297 120 11 338 902 and 10 857 365 and in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 657 850 may be used in the non aqueous electrolytes embodied herein. In some embodiments non aqueous electrolytes comprise an alkali metal salt as described herein a polar aprotic solvent as described herein and an additive that is reduced or polymerized at a voltage higher than the nominal voltage of carbon coated lithium titanate negative electrodes. In some such embodiments the carbon coated lithium titanate is carbon coated LiTiO. Additives that may be reduced or polymerized at a voltage higher than the nominal voltage of carbon coated lithium titanate negative electrodes include but are not limited to 1 2 divinyl furoate 1 3 butadiene carbonate 1 vinylazetidin 2 one 1 vinylaziridin 2 one 1 vinylpiperidin 2 one 1 vinylpyrrolidin 2 one 2 4 divinyl 1 3 dioxane 2 amino 3 vinylcyclohexanone 2 amino 3 vinylcyclopropanone 2 amino 4 vinylcyclobutanone 2 amino 5 vinylcyclopentanone 2 vinyl 1 2 oxazetidine vinyl methyl carbonate 2 vinylaminocyclohexanol 2 vinylaminocyclopropanone 2 vinyloxetane 2 vinyloxy cyclopropanone 3 N vinylamino cyclohexanone 3 5 divinyl furoate 3 vinylazetidin 2 one 3 vinylaziridin 2 one 3 vinylcyclobutanone 3 vinylcyclopentanone 3 vinyloxaziridine 3 vinyloxetane 3 vinylpyrrolidin 2 one 4 4 divinyl 3 dioxolan 2 one 4 vinyltetrahydropyran 5 vinylpiperidin 3 one allylglycidyl ether butadiene monoxide butyl vinyl ether dihydropyran 3 one divinyl butyl carbonate divinyl carbonate divinyl crotonate divinyl ether divinyl ethylene carbonate divinyl ethylene silicate divinyl ethylene sulfate divinyl ethylene sulfite divinyl methoxypyrazine divinyl methylphosphate divinyl propylene carbonate ethyl phosphate methoxy o terphenyl methyl phosphate oxetan 2 yl vinylamine oxiranylvinylamine vinyl carbonate vinyl crotonate vinyl cyclopentanone vinyl ethyl 2 furoate vinyl ethylene silicate vinyl ethylene sulfate vinyl ethylene sulfite vinyl methacrylate vinyl phosphate vinyl 2 furoate vinylcylopropanone vinylethylene oxide vinyl butyrolactone divinyl methoxy trifluoro cyclotriphosphazene trivinyl difluoro methoxy cyclotriphosphazene vinyl methoxy tetrafluoro cyclotriphosphazene aryloxy tetrafluoro methoxy cyclotriphosphazene diaryloxy trifluoro methoxy cyclotriphosphazene compounds aryloxpyrrole aryloxy ethylene sulfate aryloxy pyrazine aryloxy carbazole trivinylphosphate aryloxy ethyl 2 furoate 2 aryloxy cyclopropanone aryloxy o terphenyl aryloxy pyridazine butyl aryloxy ether divinyl diphenyl ether tetrahydro furan 2 yl vinylamine divinyl methoxybipyridine methoxy 4 vinylbiphenyl vinyl methoxy carbazole vinyl methoxy piperidine vinyl methoxypyrazine allylanisole 1 divinylimidazole 3 vinyltetrahydrofuran divinyl furan divinyl methoxy furan divinylpyrazine vinyl methoxy imidazole vinylmethoxy pyrrole vinyl tetrahydrofuran 2 4 divinyl isooxazole 3 4 divinyl 1 methyl pyrrole aryloxyoxetane aryloxy phenyl carbonate aryloxy piperidine aryloxy tetrahydrofuran 2 aryl cyclopropanone 2 diaryloxy furoate 4 allylanisole aryloxy carbazole aryloxy 2 furoate aryloxy crotonate aryloxy cyclobutane aryloxy cyclopentanone aryloxy cyclopropanone aryloxy cycolophosphazene aryloxy ethylene silicate aryloxy ethylene sulfate aryloxy ethylene sulfite aryloxy imidazole aryloxy methacrylate aryloxy phosphate aryloxy pyrrole aryloxy quinoline diaryloxy cyclotriphosphazene diaryloxy ethylene carbonate diaryloxy furan diaryloxy methyl phosphate diaryloxy butyl carbonate diaryloxy crotonate diaryloxy diphenyl ether diaryloxy ethyl silicate diaryloxy ethylene silicate diaryloxy ethylene sulfate diaryloxyethylene sulfite diaryloxy phenyl carbonate diaryloxy propylene carbonate diphenyl carbonate diphenyl diaryloxy silicate diphenyl divinyl silicate diphenyl silicate divinyl methoxydiphenyl ether divinyl phenyl carbonate methoxycarbazole 2 4 dimethyl 6 hydroxy pyrimidine vinyl methoxyquinoline pyridazine vinyl pyridazine quinoline vinyl quinoline pyridine vinyl pyridine indole vinyl indole triethanolamine 1 3 dimethyl butadiene butadiene vinyl ethylene carbonate imidazole vinyl imidazole piperidine vinyl piperidine pyrimidine vinyl pyrimidine pyrazine vinyl pyrazine isoquinoline vinyl isoquinoline quinoxaline vinyl quinoxaline biphenyl 1 2 diphenyl ether 1 2 diphenylethane o terphenyl N methyl pyrrole naphthalene 3 9 divinyl 2 4 8 10 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 divinyl 2 4 8 trioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 divinyl 2 4 dioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 2 4 8 10 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 2 4 8 trioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 2 4 dioxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 dimethylene 2 4 8 10 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 divinyl 1 5 7 11 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 dimethylene 1 5 7 11 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane 3 9 diethylidene 1 5 7 11 tetraoxaspiro 5.5 undecane or a mixture of any two or more thereof.

In another aspect secondary Li ion batteries are provided comprising a negative electrode comprising a lithium titanate as embodied herein for example LiTiO a positive electrode comprising LiMnO and a non aqueous electrolyte. In some embodiments the lithium titanate is carbon coated LiTiO. In other embodiments such secondary Li ion batteries are a 2.5V battery system with high power characteristics for application in hybrid electric vehicles.

One skilled in the art will readily realize that all ranges discussed can and do necessarily also describe all subranges therein for all purposes and that all such subranges also form part and parcel of this invention. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc.

All publications patent applications issued patents and other documents referred to in this specification are herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication patent application issued patent or other document was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference in its entirety. Definitions that are contained in text incorporated by reference are excluded to the extent that they contradict definitions in this disclosure.

The present invention thus generally described will be understood more readily by reference to the following examples which are provided by way of illustration and are not intended to be limiting of the present invention.

LiTiOspinel was prepared by reacting LiCOand TiO anatase in the required stoichiometric amounts. The precursors were mixed by ball milling in ethanol for 24 h to form a viscous slurry. The viscous slurry was then dried at 60 C. under vacuum and the resulting solid thoroughly ground. The reground solid was then heated for 24 h in air at 700 C. LiTiO was recovered as an agglomerated white powder. shows the SEM images of the LiTiO after crushing the agglomerates. In this case the secondary particle size is less than about 1 m the primary particle size is about 20 nm and the surface area is approximately 2 m g. Materials of these dimensions may easily be slurried during subsequent coating processes due to the low surface area of the material i.e. less than 8 m g . In addition the small scale of the primary particles allows for fast lithium diffusion out of the material which in combination with carbon coating can improve the ionic and electronic conductivity of the particles thus possibly leading to significant power capability of the LiTiO.

The morphology of the material prepared in Example 1 is different from that of LiTiOprepared according to methods disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 890 510 . LiTiO prepared by such methods exhibits very high surface areas over 90 m g as indicated by the broad XRD peak pattern as shown in . Such broad patterns may be indicative of high surface area materials. Conventional solid state processes used to prepare LiTiO typically involve mixing LiCOand TiO anatase solid materials in the required stoichiometric amounts and heating the mixture at 600 C. for 10 h to allow for the decomposition of the precursors and then heating at 950 C. for 20 h to form the LiTiO. LiTiOmaterials prepared by this method have a secondary particle size averaging approximately 20 m and a primary particle size of approximately 2 to 3 m .

In this example a 97 nitrogen and 3 propylene gas mixture by weight was introduced to a rotary furnace containing 50 g of LiNiCoO preheated to 700 C. shows an XRD pattern of the LiNiCoObefore and after carbon coating with the N propylene gas mixture. Prior to the carbon coating process the material shows a pure layered structure as evident from however after the carbon deposition process the material was completely decomposed to nickel oxide and manganese oxide as evidenced in .

In this example a 97 COand 3 propylene gas mix by weight was introduced to a rotary furnace preheated to 700 C. and containing 50 g of LiTiO prepared by conventional solid state processes see Example 1 above . B and C show XRD patterns of nano structured LiTiOprepared at 950 C. without carbon coating with a 0.5 wt carbon coating and with a 1 wt carbon coating . After completion of the coating experiment the LiTiOmaterial was observed to have turned black from its initial white color thereby indicating the presence of carbon on the surface of the LiTiO. Very little decomposition of the LiTiOwas observed as evidenced by the similarities of the XRD patterns prior to carbon coating and after carbon coating despite the change in color.

The area specific impedance ASI of different LiTiOnegative electrodes as a function of the state of the charge of the cells was measured. shows the ASI of different LiTiOnegative electrodes. The ASI measurements were performed using a 30 s current interruption method during the charge discharge cycling. As shown in the cell having a negative electrode comprising carbon coated LiTiO Li C LiTiO shows much lower impedance than the cell containing the uncoated LiTiO Li LiTiO . Thus it appears that the very low impedance values of the carbon coated LiTiOmay account at least in part for the increase in the overall conductivity of the carbon coated LiTiO.

A 2.5 V Li ion cell was tested using the HPPC test as described by the FreedomCAR test manual for application in hybrid electric vehicles. The configuration of the cell was LiTiO 1.2 M LiPF EC PC DMC 1 1 3 LiMnO . As used herein the bracketed notation is used to describe cells with the following convention anode electrolyte cathode . The negative electrode consisted of LiTiOthat was mixed with 10 acetylene black to enhance the conductivity of electrode and 10 PVDF binder in N methyl 2 pyrrolidinone NMP as a solvent to form a slurry. The slurry was then coated onto an Cu foil. The positive electrode consisted of 80 LiMnOactive material 10 acetylene black 10 PVDF binder and was then coated onto an Al current collector. The laminates were dried inside a vacuum oven to remove all solvent. The final electrodes were obtained after calendaring the laminates to about 35 porosity. The HPPC test was conducted with the cells 32 cmtest fixture 15.5 cmeffective surface in accordance with the FreedomCAR test manual.

The HPPC test is intended to establish the discharge power capability at the end of an 18 s discharge current and the cell regeneration power capability over 2 s of a regeneration current pulse as a function of depth of discharge DOD . The test is used to determine the total available state of charge and energy swings that can be utilized within the HEV operating voltage limits for specified discharge power and regeneration levels. In the HPPC test ASI values are measured and acceptable values are typically determined to be less than 30 Ohm cmfor the 18 s pulse discharge.

As a comparative example shows the HPPC test results of the LiTiO 1.2 M LiPFin EC PC DMC 1 1 3 LiMnO cell using 5 C rate pulse discharge. The LiTiOnegative electrode used in the example was prepared by conventional solid state reactions that result in a particle morphology as shown in . The ASI of the cell based on this material was approximately 140 Ohm cmfor the 18 s pulse discharge. ASI values of this level are too high to meet HEV battery requirements.

The HPPC test was also carried out on LiTiOprepared according to embodiments provided herein both before and after carbon coating. Cells based on this material before carbon coating show outstanding power capability with 18 s pulse discharge and ASI around 15 Ohm cmat pulse discharge rates of 20 C. The power capability of cells based on nano structured LiTiOexceeds the FreedomCAR power requirement for application in HEVs. Furthermore when cycling the material at 10 C and 20 C pulse discharge rates the capacity of the material remains very stable with almost no fade at a continuous charge and discharge cycling see . In addition the full cell capacity at a 20 C rate was close to that when cycling the cell at a 1 C rate.

After coating the LiTiOwith carbon the cell was able to sustain higher pulse rates of 40 C with an ASI of approximately 15 Ohm cm . This result shows that the power capability of cells based on carbon coated LiTiOexceeds the power requirements for a battery to level the load on the main engine in HEVs. Such ample power in cells based on LiTiO or carbon coated LiTiO allows for the design of smaller batteries that can meet the power requirement for HEVs. Small batteries provide advantages for HEVs including but not limited to cost consideration in building the batteries lower mass of the individual batteries lower overall mass of the HEV etc. Power capabilities of cells based on LiTiO or carbon coated LiTiOexceed the performance of graphite LiNiCoMnO cells or graphite LiNiCoAlO cells as are currently being investigated for HEV applications. Hence C LiTiO LiMnO Li ion cells may be more suitable in terms of cost weight and calendar life in high power cells for HEVs than similar graphite based cells.

A 2.5 V Li ion cell LiTiO 1.2 M LiPF EC PC DMC 1 1 3 LiMnO was tested using the HPPC test for HEV applications. The negative electrode consisted of LiTiOactive material that was mixed with 10 acetylene black to enhance the conductivity of electrode and 10 PVDF binder in NMP as a solvent to form a slurry. The slurry was then coated either onto Al foil or Cu foil. The positive electrode consisted of 80 LiMnOactive material 10 acetylene black and 10 PVDF binder coated onto an Al current collector. The laminates were dried inside a vacuum oven to remove all solvent. The final electrodes were obtained after calendaring the laminates to about 35 porosity. To show the importance of the current collector in the LiTiO 1.2 M LiPF EC PC DMC 1 1 3 LiMnO cell chemistry two otherwise identical LiTiO based negative electrodes were prepared one on Al foil and the other on Cu foil. In this case the positive electrode prepared with LiMnOactive material on an Al foil. The LiTiOwith Al as current collector 1.2 M LiPF EC PC DMC 1 1 3 LiMnOwith Al as current collector and LiTiOwith Cu as current collector 1.2 M LiPF EC PC DMC 1 1 3 LiMnOwith Al as current collector cells were cycled between 3.0 V and 0.5 V at room temperature and at 55 C. show plots of the voltage profile and capacity vs. cycle number respectively of a LiTiOwith Al as current collector 1.2 M LiPF EC PC DMC 1 1 3 LiMnOwith Al as current collector cell cycled between 3.0 and 0.5V for 30 cycles. show plots of the voltage profile and capacity vs. cycle number respectively of a LiTiOwith Cu as current collector 1.2 M LiPF EC PC DMC 1 1 3 LiMnOwith Al as current collector cell cycled between 3.0V and 0.5V for over 70 cycles. As shown in the LiTiOwith Al as current collector 1.2 M LiPF EC PC DMC 1 1 3 LiMnOwith Al as current collector cell showed no capacity fade with cycling from 3.0V to 0.5V. However the LiTiOwith Cu as current collector 1.2 M LiPF EC PC DMC 1 1 3 LiMnO with Al as current collector cell using copper as a current collector for the negative electrode shows dramatic capacity fading within the same voltage window at room temperature. At 55 C. the LiTiOwith Al as current collector 1.2 M LiPF EC PC DMC 1 1 3 LiMnOwith Al as current collector cell exhibited limited capacity fading as shown in . Whereas the capacity fade of the LiTiOwith Cu as current collector 1.2 M LiPF EC PC DMC 1 1 3 LiMnO with Al as current collector was evident as shown in .

A 2.5 V cell LiTiO 1.2 M LiPF EC EMC 3 7 LiMnO was fabricated with 15.5 cmelectrodes. The positive electrode consisted of 80 wt LiMnO 10 wt acetylene black and 10 wt PVDF. The negative electrode was made by coating a mix of the LiTiOmaterial 10 wt acetylene black and 10 wt PVDF on a copper current collector. The same positive electrode was used to make a 4.0 V cell Graphite 1.2 M LiPF EC EMC 3 7 LiMnO where graphite was used as a negative electrode. In this case the negative electrode consisted of a mix of graphite as mesocarbon microbeads MCMB and 10 wt PVDF coated on a copper foil. Both cells were tested under similar conditions i.e. current density and temperature. However the LiTiObased cell was tested between 1.5 and 3 V while the graphite based cell was tested between 3 and 4.3 V. shows the capacity vs. cycle number of the graphite LiMnOcell and shows the capacity vs. cycle number of the LiTiO LiMnOcell. and show that under the same rate 96 C and same temperature 55 C. the LiTiO LiMnOcell exhibits good cycling behavior with a limited capacity fade for up to 500 cycles whereas the graphite LiMnOcell exhibits a substantial capacity fade.

While particular embodiments have been illustrated and described it should be understood that changes and modifications can be made therein in accordance with ordinary skill in the art without departing from the invention in its broader aspects as defined in the following claims.

