---

title: Initiating a file download by a first electrical device through a second electrical device
abstract: A method comprises a second electrical device receiving a request via a network from a first electrical device to cause a file to be downloaded. The method further comprise the second electrical device causing the file to be downloaded from a server via the network to the second electrical device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08521806&OS=08521806&RS=08521806
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08521806
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061214
---
It is common place to download files from a server via a network such as the Internet. Upon being downloaded the file is typically stored in some type of non volatile storage medium e.g. hard disk drive . Unfortunately not all devices have enough or any non volatile storage. Downloading a file to a device without non volatile storage in which to store the downloaded file is problematic.

Certain terms are used throughout the following description and claims to refer to particular system components. As one skilled in the art will appreciate computer companies may refer to a component by different names. This document does not intend to distinguish between components that differ in name but not function. In the following discussion and in the claims the terms including and comprising are used in an open ended fashion and thus should be interpreted to mean including but not limited to . . . . Also the term couple or couples is intended to mean either an indirect direct optical or wireless electrical connection. Thus if a first device couples to a second device that connection may be through a direct electrical connection through an indirect electrical connection via other devices and connections through an optical electrical connection or through a wireless electrical connection.

Various embodiments comprise first and second electrical devices coupled to each other via a network. The first and second electrical devices can access an on line service that contains or otherwise has access to downloadable files. The user may be able to select from multiple on line services. Each on line service has one or more files from which the user can choose for downloading. The first electrical device can be used to select a file from the on line service. The first device which may or may not comprise sufficient non volatile storage for the downloaded file causes the second device to have the file downloaded from the on line service. As such a user uses the first electrical device to select the desired file but the second electrical device performs the download operation at the request of the first electrical device. Once the file is downloaded to the second electrical device the file can be accessed by the first electrical device via the network.

An illustrative use of this technique is for downloading movies for viewing on a television. A networked television may not have sufficient or any non volatile storage for storing the downloaded movie. The television is coupled over a network to a computer or other non volatile storage device that can store the movie. Via the television a user can browse one or more on line movie services and select a movie to download. The television then causes the computer to download the requested movie. Once the movie is downloaded and stored on the computer the user can playback the movie from the computer. During playback of the movie the computer streams the movie over the network to the television. Moreover the user can conveniently purchase movies from on line services interacting directly only with the television and thus need not directly interact with the computer to purchase the movie. The computer is used by the television during the download process but in a manner generally transparent to the user.

In some embodiments the first electrical device does not contain sufficient or any non volatile storage to store a downloadable file. In other embodiments the first electrical device does contain some and perhaps sufficient non volatile storage to store a downloadable file but such storage need not be used for storing the downloaded file. An input output I O device is included to permit a user to operate the first electrical device . The I O device may comprise for example a remote control e.g. wireless remote control .

In some embodiments the second electrical device comprises a computer e.g. desktop notebook etc. a network attached storage device NAS or another electrical device that can communicate with the first electrical device over a network. As shown in the second electrical device comprises a processor file download software that is executable by the processor and non volatile storage for storing downloaded files. In accordance with at least some embodiments the functionality performed by the second electrical device is caused by the processor executing the file download software .

Software and are provided on any suitable computer readable medium. Each processor and can access its relevant computer readable medium and execute the software contained thereon. Examples of suitable computer readable media comprise volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and non volatile storage such as read only memory ROM a hard disk drive a compact disc read only memory CD ROM Flash memory etc.

The network over which the first and second electrical devices and communicate can be a wired network or a wireless network. Thus the network coupling device may comprise a wired or wireless router an access point AP a hub a switch combinations thereof or other devices suitable for implementing a network. The network may be any suitable type of network comprising for example a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN .

The first and second electrical devices and can access one or more servers . The servers provide one or more on line file download services. The servers comprise storage for various downloadable files . A user of the first electrical device can browse the choices of downloadable files and select a downloadable file for downloading. The first electrical device then commands the second electrical device to download the selected file from the specified server and store the downloaded file on the second electrical device s non volatile storage .

In other embodiments such as that shown in the file download software is implemented as two and in yet other embodiments more than two components. In the embodiment of one component comprises a translation software component and another component comprises a download manager component . The user software permits a user to browse downloadable file choices from the server s and to select one or more of the files to be downloaded. The translation software component receives file download commands from the user software and translates the commands to a form suitable for the download manager . An application programming interface API is implemented to which the translation software component and the download managers adhere. Using an API permits different companies to develop and provide the various download managers . For example the company that provides a particular movie download on line service may also provide a corresponding download manager that knows how to download files from that particular service. A different download manager can be provided for each available file download on line service and all such download managers can correctly interact with a common translation software module by using the same API.

The information that a particular download manager needs to download a file requested by a user of first electrical device may vary among the various file download services. In some embodiments the download manager and the file download software in general must be informed of the identity of the server on which the target file is currently stored and the identify of the file itself. The server identity may be in the form of a uniform resource locator URL internet protocol IP address etc. The file identity may in the form of a file name. Some file download services may also require a user to authenticate himself or herself before the requested file can be downloaded. The authentication process may require the file requesting device to provide a correct password key or other suitable form of authentication. The download manager component associated with a given file download on line service is configured to implement whatever authentication procedures are required by that particular on line service. For example a user authentication data value e.g. a password may be hard coded into the download manager component or provided in memory e.g. protected memory on the second electrical device and accessible to the download manager component .

Upon the user selecting a desired on line service the first electrical device accesses a server associated with the selected on line service and requests the identity of the various downloadable files and related information that that particular on line service contains. The URL of a server that provides the selected on line service is stored in the first electrical device . The file identities comprise in some embodiments the names of the various downloadable files. The related information comprises information pertaining to the downloadable files. Such related information may comprise for example metadata specifying an alternative file name file size the running time of the file e.g. the amount of time a movie takes to play etc.

At the server sends the user software the requested information file names and related information . The requested information is generated by the server and provided to the first electrical device in the form of one or more web pages. As such the user of the first electrical device accesses the on line service via a user interface that has the look and feel of Internet browsing using a browser. As noted above the first electrical device may comprise a television and as such the user may be sitting a significant distance away e.g. 10 feet compared to a user of a computer typically three feet away or less . In some embodiments the pages provided by the server are customized for a user that is assumed to be sitting a significant distance away from the display of the first electrical device. Customization of such pages may comprise for example the use of a font of a sufficient size to be easily readable from a distance of say 10 feet.

At the user of the first electrical device uses the I O device to navigate the displayed choices of downloadable files and to select a file to be downloaded. Once the file choice has been made at the first electrical device submits a command over the network to the second electrical device for the second electrical device to download the selected file. The second electrical device receives and processes the command accordingly. The command comprises whatever information is needed by the file download software executing on the second electrical device to cause the target file to be downloaded. Such information comprises in some embodiments a file name and a URL of the server that contains or otherwise has access to the target file. The information may also comprise a value used by the on line service to authenticate the request and or the source of the request. The URL of the appropriate server may be provided by the first electrical device to the second electrical device .

As part of the file navigation and selection process the server to which the first electrical device is currently accessing streams a small portion of the file to the first electrical device for direct playback i.e. without storing the file on the first electrical device . In the case of movies a short clip of the movie can be streamed to the first electrical device e.g. television . Such clips may help the user make a decision about which files to download.

In embodiments in which the download manager components are separate from the translation software component the translation software component determines which download manager to use to access and download the user requested file. The translation software component determines the download manager to use based on for example the name of the on line service selected by the user the URL of the selected on line service or by other means.

At the download software and in some embodiments the download manager executing on the second electrical device submits a request to the appropriate server to download the target file to the second electrical device. The server responds to the request and at downloads the requested file to the second electrical device . In some embodiments the downloaded file is compressed and or encrypted while in other embodiments the downloaded file is not compressed or encrypted.

Depending on the file size it may take more than a trivial amount of time to download the file. While the file is being downloaded the first electrical device provides download status to the user. In an illustrative embodiment the first electrical device submits a command over the network to the second electrical device to provide a status of the download process. The file download software examines the related file information e.g. metadata to determine the size of the file being downloaded determines how much of the file has already been downloaded and computes a status value that indicates the status of the download process. The file download software provides the status value to the user software of the first electrical device . The first electrical device displays the status value or a graphic representative of the status value. In some embodiments the status value is or represents a percentage complete value. The user software can display the percentage complete value in numerical form or generate a bar or equivalent graphic representation of the percentage complete value. In some embodiments the first electrical device periodically requests the status update of the download process. The period may be n e.g. every 5 seconds.

At the second electrical device receives the file and stores the file on its non volatile storage . In accordance with some embodiments the downloaded files are stored in a predetermined directory or folder for ease of subsequent processing and retrieval by the second electrical device .

In at least some embodiments the user pays for a file the user desires to download. In some such embodiments the user pre registers with the on line service via any suitable Internet connected computing device to set up an account. The financial transaction may then be automatically charged to that user s account. When the second electrical device accesses the target server the second electrical device provides a piece of information that enables the server to identify the user. The financial transaction may then be automatically charged to that user s account.

In accordance with some embodiments the servers contain the downloadable files. In other embodiments a server provides a gateway through which access to other servers containing the downloadable files can be accessed.

The above discussion is meant to be illustrative of the principles and various embodiments of the present invention. Numerous variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. The file to be downloaded can contain information other than a movie such as data. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications.

