---

title: Policy calendar
abstract: A calendar tool displays policies that are scheduled to function in managed networks. The tool allows the network administrator to select and view individual scheduled policies, many individual scheduled policies or scheduled policy suites. The calendar identifies the different scheduled policies as rectilinear colored blocks of time on a calendar. These blocks will open their properties forms when double selected. Overlaps of scheduled policies and gaps between scheduled policies can be identified visually on the calendar because they are displayed in two distinct blocks of color which are different from any other colored block displayed. The administrator/user can see all policies that contribute to an overlap by simply selecting on the particular overlap. The user can see calendar information either in a weekly or daily format.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07710999&OS=07710999&RS=07710999
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 07710999
owner_city: Paris
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20060427
---
The invention is directed to communication networks and in particular to a policy calendar for enabling scheduling of policies over time.

A network service is dependent on the amount of data it can send and receive from a source device to one or more destination devices. As such a network service is dependent on the resources it can utilize to transfer the data and on various parameters of these resources such as uptime outages bandwidth delay loss and jitter. For example an e mail service requires far less network resources than a video conferencing service because the e mail service often has relatively little data to send and it is generally acceptable if an e mail transmission is slightly delayed in transiting a network. On the other hand a typical video conference requires enough network resources to send data constantly and seamlessly in two directions. If the network resources are simply shared between these two and may be other network services the e mail service will deliver e mail extremely fast but the video conferencing service would not be able to display a very clear picture.

A set of rules for allocating network resources between the various network services is called a policy . Policies are used for allocating network resources to services in a fair way such that in the above example the video conferencing service receives more network resources than the e mail services. In broad terms policies distribute the network resources to services based on the type of service e mail video etc and other factors some determined through agreed upon attributes for network connections often established as SLAs service level agreements .

Today s network management applications are run and configured through policies that can be scheduled to operate over time. From time to time it is necessary to change one or more policies. Since many policies can be used at the same time by different subscribers or over a period of time it is difficult for a network administrator user to have an easy way to see what policy is being used at a specific time or a range of times. In addition since the number of subscribers to a service is very large and continues to grow network administrators users have problems identifying policies that operate simultaneously and or gaps of time where policies are operating. Both these situations will result in network problems if not corrected.

US Patent application 20040039803 Law entitled Unified Policy based Management System describes a system for enforcing QoS defined by policy rules at a network node. The network management system employs a Policy Enforcement Agent PEA responsible for capturing a policy rule in flight and translating the policy rule to an actual policy enforcement action executable at a network node. The patent application mentions use of a GUI graphical user interface to schedule Policy Enforcement Agents PEAs .

However this US Patent Application does not provide any details of such how a GUI may be used for policy scheduling.

US Patent application 20030041139 Beadles et al. entitled Event Management for A Remote Network Policy Management System describes an event manager that provides dynamic response for the purposes of controlling policy updates generation and deployment. Dynamic events are used to communicate the fact that policy changes updates creations have occurred.

However this US Patent Application does not describe a GUI used for policy management. In fact this reference describes placing a policy application under the control of an event management system that applies policies in response to the occurrence of events in the system. That is policies are not applied according to a schedule but rather they are applied dynamically in response to network events.

US Patent application 20020122422 Kenney et al. entitled Central Policy Manager describes a classification hierarchy used for characterizing network traffic at a high level both to allow measurements of network traffic and to describe a policy for each network QoS. An XML extensible mark up language API application programming interface allows applications to manage a central repository of policies. Policies templates allow network QoS policies to be re used across multiple links. Policy alarms can be raised by quality of service devices when a policy is violated. The policy manager describes associating a policy with a schedule in tabular format which sets the time when the policy should be enforced.

However this US Patent Application does not address the problem of detecting and resolving policy scheduling problems such as policy application overlaps referred to as conflicts and absences in policy application referred to as gaps .

It is an object of the invention to provide a policy calendar for enabling policies to operate over time without conflict or gaps.

The invention is applicable to scheduling policies in networks equipped with a Service Aware Manager SAM . However it is to be noted that applicability of the invention is not restricted to SAM managed networks but can be used in any managed networks using policy based configuration and control. Scheduled policies are becoming more and more common in all forms of network management products element management traffic engineering products service assurance products network testing products etc. . The policy calendar of the invention enables a policy administrator to view all policies active in a network domain managed by a certain service provider. The term network domain is used here for a range of a network network elements and the respective software applications under the same administrative control.

The tool allows the network administrator to select and view individual scheduled policies many individual scheduled policies or scheduled collections of policies i.e. policy suites . The calendar identifies the different scheduled policies as rectilinear colored blocks of time on a calendar. These blocks open their properties forms when double selected. Overlaps of scheduled policies and gaps between scheduled policies can be identified visually on the calendar because they are displayed in distinct blocks of color which are different from any other colored block displayed for non overlapping policies . The administrator user can identify all policies that contribute to an overlap by simply selecting on the particular overlap. The user can see calendar information either in a weekly or daily format.

Accordingly the invention provides a method of managing policies established for traffic flows in a network domain for enabling a service provider to selectively enforce policies throughout the network domain comprising a defining a plurality of policies type groups identifiable by a policy template each group defining a plurality of policies characterized by a specified range of values for traffic attributes applicable to traffic flow b configuring a calendar view on a GUI screen the calendar showing policies scheduling for a selected port wherein each policy is shown as a block of a distinctive color extending over a period of time in a column identified by the policy template c maintaining the policies groups and policies in each group on a policy server associated with timing information regarding enforceability of the policies for the traffic flow and d distributing the policies from the server to all network elements in the network domain that are involved in receiving and transmitting the traffic flow.

The invention also provides a policy calendar system for managing policies established for traffic flows in a network domain for enabling a service provider to selectively enforce policies throughout the network domain comprising a policy server for maintaining a record of all policies currently applicable to a traffic flow established across the network domain a policy GUI module for configuring a policy calendar on a terminal based on the record maintained by the policy server and a policy distribution unit for updating the network elements in the network domain that are involved in receiving and transmitting the traffic flow with any changes in policies on the policy server.

Advantageously the invention enables a policy administrator user quick visual access to see what policies are scheduled and when and to see in specific instances when they overlap conflict or are missing time gaps .

Another advantage of the invention is that a policy administrator user may correct any conflict and fill the gaps as necessary based on the information presented by the policy calendar. This is particularly relevant for ensuring that traffic is treated fair for all subscribers with a view to enforce the respective SLAs.

Still another advantage of using a policies calendar is that it gives the user a fast way to access the properties configuration forms for each policy. The policy calendar may also be advantageously used in the commissioning process of a network to build sets of policies that could then be deployed to objects in the network.

The time of day field provides the time in hours and half hours intervals increasing from top to bottom a marker indicates the current time. It is to be understood that the time scale may provide different larger or smaller divisions of the time as desired.

The policies specification field has various buttons and selection fields shown in this embodiment at the top of screen . In a top most row ingress button and egress button enable the user to see the policy calendar for a selected ingress and respectively egress port by selecting Ports under Network Objects . The example shown in illustrates the policies for an ingress port as shown by the depressed state of button . Next row on the policy specification field is provided for enabling selection of the policies type s to be shown on the calendar screen. In the example of the administrator user may select to view or not the QoS policies the IP filter policies the MAC filter policies and the Scheduler policies . If desired calendar view can be easily modified to show only some of the policies selectors using the check mark fields.

Each of policies type selectors and subtends a selection of policies each being defined by a specific grouping of rules. As indicated above the rules enforce the agreed upon attributes and or attribute ranges on the respective traffic they may include customer specific policies based on agreements between the service provider and the respective users service specific policies IP TCP VoIP video etc and resource specific policies e.g. allocated bandwidth mean rate peak rate burst rate jitter transit delay latency priority security level etc. . Such a grouping selection of policies under a respective policies type selector and is referred to here as a policies set . The policy set is specific for the traffic in the category class defined by the selectors and .

For example the QoS policies are applicable to ATM and IP network domains IP filter policies are applicable to IP network domains MAC filter policies are applicable to LANs etc scheduler policies are applicable to ATM network domains. The attributes under the QoS quality of service selector identify the traffic that should receive prioritized service including parameters such as guaranteed lower bonds on data rates delay jitter and loss. It is also to be noted that other policies types may be defined in which case additional selectors may be provided on the policy specification field.

The next row in the policy specification field provides the policies type template for the policies shown in the respective column. Preferably the current date is also shown next to the policies type for user s convenience. Preferably for easy identification all policies shown under a template use the same color as seen by the tones of grey in which differ from column to column.

Policy fields identify a specific policy that is enforced for the traffic over a certain period of time. In the example of the identification is spelled in each field other arrangements may be however used such as different colors for each policy etc. In this example the calendar tool screen shows three policy types under the QoS template namely Policy Policy Policy . As an example Policy may require a delay of 0.05 seconds a jitter of 0.01 seconds and a loss between ee. Preferably the policy type may be designated with Platinum Gold Bronze and variants such as Gold Plus etc. In general a policy is associated to a certain account policy which may be different form subscriber to subscriber. It is to be noted that the policy calendar screen may be designed to show as many policies as may be handled by the service provider and is not limited to the three types of services shown in by way of example.

The tool also allows the network administrator to select a policy block view the particular policies applicable for the respective block and edit the policies if need be. Selection of a policy may for example be performed by double clicking on tab or by double clicking anywhere within the block . The user may then view individual scheduled policies many individual scheduled policies or scheduled policy suites which are collections of policies .

Overlaps of scheduled policies and gaps between scheduled policies can be identified visually on the calendar because they are displayed in distinct colors seen in a darker grey on which are different from any other colored block displayed. In addition the overlap is identified with a special mark as shown at . The administrator user can see all policies that contribute to an overlap by single clicking on tab provided on the overlap area. This allows the user to move between different overlapping conflicting Policies they can double click on a Policy of interest to display the respective attributes.

For example the ingress traffic under the QoS template has attributes that confer it a Policy status between 1 00 am and 20 00 pm as shown by the block denoted with A. However there is an overlap between 8 00 pm and 16 00 pm with policies Policy and Policy as shown by area denoted with B the overlap appears in a different color here dark grey . In order to address the problem the user can select tab associated with the respective overlapping blocks to correct the problem.

Under the same QoS template there is a gap between 20 00 pm and 24 00 pm meaning that no policy is imposed on the traffic during this period which is not acceptable. Again the policy administrator will correct this gap by associating the duration of the gap with a certain QoS policy. A new policy or calendar updates changes are created using a policy configuration tool the calendar screen is refreshed after any change in order to see the update.

The services provider uses a policy calendar system and a terminal that enables display of screens as shown in . Policy calendar system which may be provided as an independent tool or may be integral part of a network management system includes a policy server and a policy GUI module .

While server is shown generically to include a database for storing the policies it is to be noted that server also includes modules that enable write read operations to from database and other operations for enabling maintenance of this information. Policy server controls the objects within domain in accordance with the policies applicable to the ingress and egress traffic for each port on network devices R R as shown in the insert. System also comprises a policy distribution module that updates the routers with any changes in policies on the policy server.

Policy GUI module enables the policy administrator to organize and display the information on administrator s terminal as discussed above in connection with . Policy GUI module is shown on as distinct from the network management GUI but evidently it may be integrated in the existing GUI. Policy GUI module includes a view setting module that enable the user to select the policies type groups the user wishes to see and the time of interest week day . A time and group reference unit provides the time scale and configures screen according to the view type day week and the selected policies type groups . A policy reference color unit associates the policies type group and the policies in the group with a specific color. Interface enables GUI to configure update the policies on server and also enables policy GUI module to access server for extracting information from server .

The main operations performed by server are writing viewing and correcting updating policies. Writing new policies operation is performed when a new customer subscriber requests a service available across the service provider network or a customer requests a new service. The administrator will then provide the pertinent information to the policy server as agreed upon with the customer. Next the information is distributed to all routers that carry the traffic affected by the respective policies for enforcing the respective policies at each router along the path.

Viewing the policies operation was described above in connection with . Namely the administrator select the ingress or egress port of interest on a certain router selects the type of window it wishes to view day or week view etc policy template fields by customizing screen as needed.

Updating and or correcting policies operation is performed based on the information displayed on screen . Now the administrator has the possibility to correct any overlaps and gaps the corrected information is then stored on policy server distributed to routers R R for enforcing the respective policies.

