---

title: Propulsion controlled aircraft computer
abstract: A low-cost, easily retrofit Propulsion Controlled Aircraft (PCA) system for use on a wide range of commercial and military aircraft consists of an propulsion controlled aircraft computer that reads in aircraft data including aircraft state, pilot commands and other related data, calculates aircraft throttle position for a given maneuver commanded by the pilot, and then displays both current and calculated throttle position on a cockpit display to show the pilot where to move throttles to achieve the commanded maneuver, or is automatically sent digitally to command the engines directly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07711455&OS=07711455&RS=07711455
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 07711455
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060809
---
This invention described herein was made by employees of the United States Government and may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for Government purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The invention relates to aircraft flight control systems and more particularly to a computer assisted propulsion control system that enables a pilot to land a plane safely when its normal control surfaces such as elevators rudders and ailerons are disabled.

Aircraft flight control systems are designed with redundancy to ensure low probability of failure. Nevertheless there have been several instances of major flight control system failures. In these situations engine thrust becomes the last remaining mode of flight control. It is possible for pilots to control an aircraft using thrust by manually moving the throttles to maintain or change flight path and heading angles. However this places a high work load on the pilots which may result in a crash and loss of life. The challenge lies in creating a means of sufficient degree of thrust modulation control to safely fly and land a stricken airplane without causing a high pilot workload.

Propulsion Controlled Aircraft PCA is a computer assisted engine control system that enables a pilot to land a plane safely when its normal control surfaces such as elevators rudders and ailerons are disabled. PCA is a damage mitigation technology that utilizes propulsive thrust for aircraft control in the event of partial or total loss of flight controls due to any failure including loss of hydraulics. Whether used in military or commercial aircraft PCA has the potential to reduce the number of aircraft accidents due to loss of flight controls.

In the recent past a PCA system has been developed and disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 330 131 by Frank W. Burcham et al. incorporated herein by this reference based upon a program modification of an otherwise normal Flight Control Computer FCC that in the event of a failure of the normal flight control system of a multiengine airplane substitutes normal pitch axis control with symmetric control of the engines through their FCC driven servos using pitch attitude and pitch rate sensed by gyros to provide the feedback signals necessary to track a pitch command signal. That patented flight control system requires extensive modification not only of the FCC but also of each full authority digital engine control FADEC computer for each engine.

More recently U.S. Pat. No. 6 041 273 to Burken et al. issued Mar. 21 2000 disclosed an emergency control aircraft system using thrust modulation that compares the input flight path angle signal from a pilot thumbwheel with a sensed flight path angle to produce an error signal an ultimately an aircraft thrust control signal to drive a throttle servo for all engines. This effectively serves as an emergency backup system for a PCA that requires only program modification of the FCC without any changes in engine computers.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 126 111 to Burcham et al. issued Oct. 3 2000 shows a further refinement to the foregoing emergency flight control system that additionally uses lateral fuel transfer to allow a pilot to regain control over an aircraft under emergency conditions. Here where aircraft propulsion is available only through engines on one side of the aircraft lateral fuel transfer provides the means by which the center of gravity of the aircraft can be moved over to the wing associated with the operating engine thus inducing a moment that balances the moment from the remaining engine allowing the pilot to regain control over the aircraft.

Unfortunately all of the foregoing and all other known current implementations of PCA require expensive modifications to aircraft software and hardware as well as recertification of the aircraft. It would be greatly advantageous to provide a PCA capability at a fraction of the cost of full implementation for widespread commercial and military deployment.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a cost effective computer assisted propulsion control system that enables a pilot to land a plane safely when its normal control surface such as elevators rudders and ailerons are disabled.

It is another object to provide a propulsion control system that avoids expensive modifications to aircraft software and hardware or the need for major recertification of the aircraft.

According to the present invention the above described and other objects are accomplished by providing a low cost system and method of implementing Propulsion Controlled Aircraft PCA technology on a wide range of commercial and military aircraft. The system is an intelligent Propulsion Controlled Aircraft Computer PCAC that reads in aircraft data including aircraft state pilot commands and other related data. The system runs a software program that calculates aircraft throttle position for a given maneuver heading change climb descent flare etc. . The calculated aircraft throttle position for the given maneuver is then displayed on a cockpit display to show the pilot where to move throttles to achieve the commanded maneuver or is automatically sent to command the engines in aircraft equipped with engines capable of receiving digital command signals . The PCAC may be a conventional computer platform such as a standard laptop PC with peripheral slot. A Bus Monitor card is inserted in the peripheral slot for communications over the aircraft data buses. The Bus Monitor card reads the aircraft data buses to provide aircraft state and pilot commands. The system also includes a display which may be on the laptop or separate display closer to the pilots. The PCAC runs a software program comprising three major software subroutines. A first software subroutine monitors the aircraft data bus via the Bus Monitor card and processes data from the Bus Monitor card. The software also comprises a second PCA subroutine that calculates necessary throttle command based on current aircraft state and desired maneuvers. A third subroutine formats the calculated throttle command as well as the actual monitored aircraft data and based on aircraft state and desired maneuvers generates a PCA display showing current and commanded throttle position to show the pilot where to move throttles to achieve the commanded maneuver. Alternatively the third subroutine may generate a PCA command signal that is directly communicated to the engines for automatic control in aircraft equipped with engines capable of receiving PCA signals . In either case the system can be retrofitted to any aircraft military or commercial which has a data bus. Thus no changes are required to aircraft control software and only minimal hardware changes.

The present invention is an intelligent Propulsion Controlled Aircraft Computer PCAC for implementing Propulsion Controlled Aircraft PCA technology in a low cost way on a wide range of commercial and military aircraft. The PCAC reads the existing aircraft data buses runs a PCA algorithm to calculate throttle commands necessary for a given thrust control maneuver and then drives a display with a readout that makes a throttle controlled landing possible for the pilot. More specifically the PCAC reads in aircraft data including aircraft state pilot commands and other related data. If the pilot commands include a desired maneuver heading change climb descent flare etc. the PCAC then calculated aircraft throttle position necessary to complete the desired maneuver and then generates a display to show the pilot where to move throttles to achieve the commanded maneuver. As an alternative to the visual display the system is also capable of deploying command signals to automatically control the engines in aircraft equipped with engines capable of receiving PCA signals . The PCAC may be a conventional computer platform running software to be described.

The PCAC also includes a display which can be the either the lap top display itself or an optional remote display such as a separate smaller monitor closer to the pilots. A remote display may provide better visual access to the pilot but may incur larger modifications to the aircraft.

As mentioned the PCAC may optionally be connected to the aircraft power bus . Connecting the PCAC to aircraft power if available avoids possible time delays and ensures that power is always available.

The PCAC runs a software program comprising three major PCA software subroutines. All three PCA software subroutines may be written in standard programming language such as C . The software PCA subroutines include 1 A data bus monitoring subroutine that processes aircraft state data collected by PCAC via the bus monitor card 2 a PCA subroutine that calculates necessary throttle command based on the aircraft state data collected by the data bus monitoring subroutine in view of desired maneuvers and 3 a PCAC Display subroutine that takes the calculated throttle command from the PCA subroutine and graphically displays both current throttle position and desired throttle position needed to achieve the desired maneuvers. Each of these subroutines is described in more detail.

1. The data bus monitoring subroutine uses conventional call functions embedded in the operating system to a Dynamically Linked Library DLL to read selected parameters from the aircraft data bus. Conventional bus monitor cards such as the SBS Technologies PCMCIA2 bus monitor card are packaged with a DLL that is installed on PCAC to read the selected parameters from the aircraft data buses and for present purposes these parameters includes both aircraft state parameters as well as pilot commands. The aircraft state parameters include pitch angle roll angle pitch rate roll rate angle of attack airspeed and throttle positions. The pilot commands include commanded flight path angle commanded roll angle and commanded heading. The data bus monitoring subroutine uses the call functions to DLL Library to read these parameters from the aircraft data bus.

2. The foregoing aircraft state parameters and pilot commands are then made available to the PCA subroutine which then calculates the throttle command required to obtain the pilot commanded aircraft state. The calculations of throttle command required to obtain the pilot commanded aircraft state as employed in the present PCA algorithm have been determined empirically using MATLAB by Mathworks in a flight simulator of the target aircraft. Once the correlation of throttle commands are developed they may be easily auto coded into a C PCA subroutine which is then loaded on the PCAC .

3. The PCAC display subroutine is designed to take the output from the PCA subroutine above and display current throttle positions and limits based on the original data from the aircraft data bus. The PCAC display subroutine also shows commanded throttle positions based on the calculations in the PCA subroutine above.

In operation the PCAC is powered on and the main PCAC software is run to initiate the three subroutines. The data bus monitoring subroutine will begin to make call functions to the DLL to read the selected parameters from the aircraft data bus and the PCA subroutine will begin to calculate throttle commands for current commanded aircraft state. Thus for example if a pilot commands a new aircraft state such as a 15 degree left bank typically using the aircraft mode control panel this command is read from the data bus by the PCAC which then calculates the throttle command required for this maneuver. The new throttle command is then displayed on the PCAC or remote display according to a particular display format that allows the pilot to easily adjust the actual throttle positions manually to the commanded throttle position in order to complete a desired maneuver.

A number of variations on the basic concept will now be described. For example instead of using a display the PCAC can be used to drive the engines directly to complete the commanded maneuver. In this case all throttle commands are sent directly to the electronic engine control EEC of the aircraft for implementation. This will require a minor interface to the electronic engine control but not the flight control software.

Also many aircraft currently have electronic flight computers already installed in their cockpit for various functions and some of these computers already have access to data bus parameters. Thus instead of using a dedicated computer for PCAC it may be possible to rely on an existing onboard computer for the above functionality.

A specific example of the above described propulsion control system inclusive of PCAC will now be described which provides a digital throttle input to the existing C17 F117 Electronic Engine Control EEC unit.

As seen in the laptop PCAC coupled through its onboard ARINC 429 receiver transmitter bus card to the two channels A B of the spare low speed ARINC 429 receiver transmitter and on to the existing aircraft EEC via the aircraft data bus . The PCAC is also coupled the aircraft s data bus here a Mil Std 1553 data bus to monitor aircraft state pilot commands and throttle position. The PCAC is running the software comprising the three major software subroutines 1 data bus monitoring 2 PCA subroutine and 3 PCAC Display.

In operation the PCAC reads the aircraft data bus and runs the three software PCA subroutines described above . The PCA subroutine calculates necessary throttle command based on the aircraft state data collected by the data bus monitoring subroutine in view of desired maneuvers and the PCAC Display subroutine graphically displays both current throttle position and desired throttle position as shown in needed to achieve the desired maneuvers. Optionally the PCAC may output an engine command directly to the EEC for direct control. In this case in order for the PCAC to provide a digital throttle input to the existing C17 F117 Electronic Engine Control EEC unit certain software modifications are necessary to the C 17 F117 Electronic Engine Control EEC interface. The EEC software is modified to check for signal validity correct limits and other parameters engage digital throttle control and to then send throttle control commands to the engine. Specifically in the context of the C 17 F117 implementation the PCAC monitors all ARINC 429 bus communications from the aircraft EEC. When bus communication is detected at the PCAC the prescribed digital throttle engagement sequence is followed by the prescribed disengagement sequence.

Either way the PCAC enables a pilot to land a plane safely when its normal control surfaces such as elevators rudders and ailerons are disabled and yet expensive modifications to aircraft software and hardware or the need for major recertification of the aircraft are uneccessary. It should now be apparent that the foregoing system provides a PCA capability at a fraction of the cost of full implementation for widespread commercial and military deployment.

Having now fully set forth the preferred embodiment and certain modifications of the concept underlying the present invention various other embodiments as well as certain variations and modifications of the embodiments herein shown and described will obviously occur to those skilled in the art upon becoming familiar with said underlying concept. It is to be understood therefore that the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically set forth herein.

