---

title: Methods and apparatus for actuated position determination in a wireless communication device
abstract: Systems, methods, device, apparatus, and machine-readable medium are described that provide for actuation of position determination in a wireless device based on a user input to an input mechanism associated with a group communication, such as a push-to talk and/or half-duplex communication. By marrying actuation of position determination with a user's request for push-to-talk communication (i.e., a request for a talk spurt in a PTT communication), the user is not required to perform any additional position determining initiating action to start the position determining process. In addition, the actuation of position determination is coupled with the initiation of another function on the wireless device, specifically, a push-to-talk request, which benefits from having accurate and current position data available for all current call members and/or a group administrator or the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07692579&OS=07692579&RS=07692579
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 07692579
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061124
---
The disclosed aspects relate to position determination in wireless communication devices and more particularly to systems and methods for actuating position determination in a wireless communication device.

Wireless communication devices such as mobile phones pagers handheld computers etc. are becoming increasingly popular for both business and personal use. One advantage of such devices is their wireless aspect allowing the devices to be utilized whenever and wherever a user desires. As the popularity of such devices increases so too does functionality that is incorporated into the devices.

For example some wireless communication devices are available that feature a group communication mode initiated for example by pressing a push to talk PTT or push to chat button on a group communications enable cellular telephone. Such systems allow two or more individuals each having a wireless communication device equipped with a requisite PTT communication mechanism to communicate with other members of the group. For instance a group communication system can rely on a single frequency or dedicated channel over which communications are received by the wireless communication devices. In some systems only one member may transmit information to the other members at any given time. However all members can listen to the dedicated broadcast channel to receive communications from the single member who is transmitting. A member desiring to transmit to other members of the system can send an access request by depressing the PTT button on the member s respective communication device that allows the member sole access to broadcasting on the dedicated channel. Pushing the button indicates the member s request for the floor. If granted the floor or talker permission the member then speaks for a few seconds after which the member releases the PTT button and other speakers can request the floor and subsequently speak to the group.

Push to talk wireless communication devices such as PTT equipped cellular telephones and Land Mobile Radios LMRs have gained widespread use amongst various public service groups such as police departments fire departments paramedics and military branches. The group communication option prevalent in such systems allows for any and all of the members of such groups to stay in contact during emergency type situations.

In addition to push to talk communication some wireless communication devices are equipped with position determination mechanisms such as Global Positioning System GPS receivers or the like. GPS receivers provide for the reception of precise timing signals broadcasted from multiple GPS satellites. The timing signals allow for the accurate determination of device location for instance in terms of latitude and longitude coordinates.

However one limitation of current positioning determination mechanisms is that the systems require a device user or a network entity such as a network device or administrator to provide an input to initiate the position determination process. In this regard a user may be required to access a position determination application and provide a specific position determination initiating action to start the process. In the same regard a network administrator may be required to establish communication with the wireless device before actuating the position determination process. The need for such superfluous action on behalf of the user or network administrator results in the user or network administrator forgetting or otherwise neglecting the need to update the position data thus resulting in out dated inaccurate position data that reflects the previous location.

Additionally in battery powered wireless devices position determination can be a power limiting process. Thus performing position determination can be limited to situations and times that require such data. From a wireless device power standpoint constantly and automatically executing position determination on a regularly scheduled basis is not desirable due to the drain on the battery. Therefore position determination may be limited to only those specific instances in which a user or network entity benefits from or requires such data.

The disclosed systems apparatus devices methods and machine readable medium provide for an automatic actuation of position determination in a wireless communication device.

In particular systems apparatus devices methods and machine readable medium are presented that provide for actuation of position determination in a wireless device based on a user input to an input mechanism such as a button associated with push to talk PTT or group communication call. By marrying actuation of position determination with a user s request for push to talk communication i.e. a request for a talk spurt in a group communication the user is not required to perform any additional position determining initiating action to start the position determining process. In addition the actuation of position determination is coupled with another function in the wireless device i.e. the initiation of push to talk or group communication which benefits from having accurate and current position data available for all current call members and or a group administrator or the like.

In one aspect a method for actuating position determination in a wireless communication device is provided. The method includes receiving a user input for a push to talk communication and actuating position determination in response to receiving the user input for the push to talk communication. The user input for a push to talk communication otherwise referred to as a push to transmit push to chat or group communication includes engaging a designated button or input mechanism. It should be noted that the user input for a push to talk communication is not limited to engaging a button and may include input to a touch pad screen voice commands or any other suitable user input. In some aspects actuating position determination may include transmitting a position request message to a position determination entity such as a network server. The transmission of the position request message may occur in parallel i.e. on separate channels with the transmission of the group communication request or the transmission of the position request message may occur in sequence either before or after communication of the group communication request.

In some aspects the method may further include obtaining position information from a position determination entity in response to actuating position determination and determining a wireless device position based on the obtained position information. Obtaining position information from a position determination entity may entail for example obtaining timing information from a satellite or obtaining position assistance information from a wireless network server. The determined wireless device position may include a geographic position in terms of latitude and longitude coordinates a pseudorange a call point identifier an access point identifier a base station identifier or any other suitable position data.

In a further aspect an apparatus comprising a processor is provided. The processor is capable of receiving a user input for a push to talk communication and actuating position determination in response to receiving the user input for the push to talk communication.

In a different aspect a machine readable medium comprising instructions stored thereon is provided. The machine readable medium includes instructions for receiving a user input for a push to talk communication and instructions for actuating position determination in response to receiving the user input for the push to talk communication.

In yet another aspect a wireless communication device is provided. The wireless communication device includes a computer platform an input mechanism and a position actuation module. The computer platform includes a processor and a memory. The input mechanism is in communication with the processor and is operable to receive a user input to activate a push to talk communication. The position actuation module is stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The actuation module is operable to monitor for the user input to the input mechanism and to actuate position determination in response to receiving the user input to the input mechanism. The input mechanism may be a predefined button or keypad a touch screen pad display a voice recognition module or the like. The device may further include a group communications module stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The group communications module is operable to monitor for the user input to the input mechanism and actuate a group communication request in response to receiving to the user input to the input mechanism.

The position actuation module may be further operable to transmit a position request message to a position determination entity such as a network server. The wireless communication device may be configured such that the position request message and the group communication request are communicated in parallel over separate channels or in sequence. The position actuation module may be further operable to obtain position information from a position determination entity in response to actuating position determination to obtain timing information from a satellite and or to obtain position assistance information from a wireless network server. Further the position actuation module may be operable to determine a wireless device position based on the obtained position information timing information and or position assistance information. The determined wireless device position may be a geographic position a pseudorange a call point identifier an access point identifier a base station identifier or any other suitable positional data.

In another aspect a wireless communication device is defined by a means for receiving a user input for a push to talk communication and a means for actuating position determination in response to receiving the user input for the push to talk communication.

In another aspect a system for actuating position determination in a wireless communication device is provided. The system includes a wireless communication device and a position determination entity. The wireless communication device includes a computer platform an input mechanism and a position actuation module. The computer platform includes a processor and a memory. The input mechanism is in communication with the processor and is operable to receive a user input to activate a push to talk communication. The position actuation module is stored in the memory and is executable by the processor. The position actuation module is further operable to monitor for a user input to the input mechanism and to actuate position determination in response to receiving the user input to the input mechanism. The position determination entity is operable to provide position determination information to the wireless communication device.

In one aspect the position determination entity comprises a satellite in communication with the wireless communication device and operable to transmit timing information to the wireless communication device. In an alternate aspect the position determination entity comprises a wireless network server in communication with the wireless communication device and operable to transmit position assistance information to the wireless communication device.

Thus the present aspects provide for systems methods devices apparatus and machine readable medium that provide for actuation of position determination in a wireless device based on a user input to an input mechanism associated with a push to talk or group communication. By marrying actuation of position determination with a user s request for push to talk communication i.e. a request for a talk spurt in a PTT communication the user is not required to perform any additional position determining initiating action to start the position determining process. In addition the actuation of position determination is coupled with the initiation of another function on the wireless device specifically a push to talk request which benefits from having accurate and current position data available for all current call members and or a group administrator or the like. Therefore present aspects provide for systems methods devices apparatus and machine readable medium wherein position determination is actuated without requiring extraneous actions on behalf of the user or the network while accurate and current positional data is provided to push to talk communication participants and or associated administrators.

The present systems devices apparatus methods and machine readable medium will be described in more detail hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which aspects of the invention are shown. The systems devices apparatus methods and machine readable medium however may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather the present aspects are provided so that the subject disclosure will be thorough and complete and will convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

According to one aspect provides a schematic diagram representation of a system for actuating position determination based on a push to talk or group communication. The system includes a wireless communication device herein also referred to as wireless device a position determination entity and a group communications server that are in communication via a communications network such as one or some combination of a wireless network and or a satellite radio network and or a wired network . The wireless device includes an input mechanism for initiating a push to talk or group communication. For example wireless device and group communications server may be equipped with the QChat technology available from Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. Push to talk or group communication is used herein to describe at least any and all half duplex communications and includes one to many or group communications as well as one to one communications initiated via a push to talk input mechanism on the device. The input mechanism may typically comprise a button that is engaged and held to initiate a talk spurt. The talk spurt allows the wireless device user the ability to speak over the communication line to the other members of the group communication call. While a button is the typical input mechanism other input mechanisms such as voice recognition key or keypad touch screen or the like may also define the input mechanism.

The wireless device additionally includes a computer platform that includes a processor operable for executing modules routines programs and the like and a memory operable for storing modules routines programs and the like. The memory includes a group communications control module operable for recognizing a user input to input mechanism and in response communicating a group communication request to the group communications server . The memory also includes a position actuation module that includes a push to talk monitor and a position determination initiator . The push to talk monitor is operable for monitoring a user input to the input mechanism that initiates the push to talk communication. The position determination initiator is operable for actuating position determination in response to a user input to the input mechanism . Actuating position determination may include calculating a geographic position based on measurements of timing signals received from GPS satellites and or communicating a position determination request to the position determining entity . In the case of communicating a request the position determining entity may be defined by a network device such as a position assistance determining server operable for communicating position assistance data to the wireless device or the like. The wireless device may additionally include a position determining module operable for determining the position of the wireless device based on the received timing and or assistance information. In alternate aspects in which the wireless device does not include a position determining module or position determination capabilities reside external to the wireless device determination of the wireless device position may be accomplished at a network device such as the position assistance determining server or the like.

Once the position of the wireless device is determined the position information may be communicated to a network entity responsible for tracking the position of all members for example wireless devices and of the group communication call. In one aspect a situational awareness database may define the network entity responsible for tracking caller positions. In the illustrated aspect of the situational awareness database is associated with the group communications server . However in alternate aspects the situational awareness database may be associated with the position assistance determining server or any other network device in communication with wireless network .

Thus system provides apparatus and methods for automatically determining and tracking the position of one or more wireless devices based on actuation of the push to talk input mechanism during a group communication call. System thereby allows for the efficient and involuntary determination of wireless device position without requiring a device user or network administrator to actively and repetitively make position requests. Thus system provides for updated wireless device position information within the current infrastructure in a simple and readily implemented manner.

Referring to according to one aspect a block diagram representation of a wireless communication device operable for providing actuated position determination is depicted. It should be noted however that wireless devices and may have identical and or similar functional components. The wireless communication device may include any type of computerized wireless communication device such as cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless communication device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless or wired network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. The present aspects can accordingly be implemented on any form of wireless communication device or wireless computer module including a wireless communications portal including without limitation wireless modems Peripheral Component Microchannel Interconnect Architecture PCMCIA cards access terminals wireless computers or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The wireless communication device includes computer platform that can transmit data across a wireless or wired network. The computer platform can further receive and execute routines and applications and optionally display data transmitted from network devices such as the positional assistance determining server group communications server or another computer device connected to wireless network . Computer platform includes the memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Still further computer platform also includes a processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as group communications control module and or position actuation module stored in the memory of the wireless device . API can be a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of wireless communication device and the operability of the wireless communication device on a wireless network . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In one aspect in which positional determination relies on subsystems to provide positional data time data and the like the processing subsystems may include but not limited to a position location subsystem which may include for example some portion of the gpsOne position location technology available from Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. timing mechanisms and the like. In aspects in which wireless communication device is defined as a cellular telephone the communications processor may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication Universal Subscriber Identity Module USIM Subscriber Identity Module SIM voice services graphics universal serial bus USB multimedia such as Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG General Packet Radio Service GPRS etc. all of which are not individually depicted in for the sake of clarity . For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform .

Additionally wireless communication device has input mechanism for generating inputs into wireless communication device such as a push to talk initiation input commonly referred to as a push to talk spurt. As previously noted the input mechanism for push to talk initiation is defined by a button or key that is engaged and held to gain control over the half duplex communication channel thus allowing the device user request the floor and talk over to the group communication channel. Additionally the input mechanism for push to talk initiation may include any other keypad function a microphone for voice recognition a touch screen display or the like. In addition to input mechanisms the wireless device may include output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the wireless communication device . For example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc.

The memory of computer platform includes group communications control module operable for recognizing a user input to input mechanism and in response to recognizing the user input communicating a group communication request to a network device such as the group communications server shown in . The group communication request may include a request to set up and or initiate a group call and or a request for the floor during an on going group call and or a request to terminate participation in a group call and or a request to terminate the group call.

The memory also includes the position actuation module that includes the push to talk monitor and the position determination initiator . The push to talk monitor is operable for monitoring a user input to the input mechanism that initiates the push to talk communication. The position determination initiator is operable for actuating position determination in response to a user input to the input mechanism . The act of actuating position determination may include communicating a position determination request to the position determining entity such as position assistance determining server shown in or receiving timing signals from satellite wherein the timing signals are operable for determining a location position. The position determination initiator may be configured such that all user inputs to the push to talk request input mechanism result in initiation of location determination. Alternatively the position determination initiator may be configured to limit in any manner the initiation of position determination requests during a group communication call. For example position determination initiator may include a configuration that limits position determination requests to a predetermined number of user inputs e.g. the first three user inputs a predetermined number of inputs in a predetermined time period e.g. only one user input per minute etc. In other instances the position determination initiator may be configured to limit position determination requests to situations where the push to talk communication occurs if the wireless communication device has been determined to have changed geographic position. For example in this case position determining module may be in communication with position location subsystem which may have updated position information for example based on the execution of another application that utilizes such information. As such position determining module may be able to determine that wireless communication device has changed position since the last user input into input mechanism .

The wireless communication device may additionally include a position determining module operable for determining the position of the wireless device . In some aspects the position determining module may utilize timing information communicated from satellite to determine the position of the wireless communication device . Additionally in other aspects the position determining module may utilize assistance information communicated from a network device such as position assistance determining server to determine the position of the wireless communication device . The position determining module may further include a position determinator comprising a function or routine operable for determining at the wireless device the position of the wireless device. In alternate aspects such as when the wireless device does not include a position determining module or position determination capabilities reside external to the wireless device determination of the wireless device position may be accomplished at a network device such as position assistance determining server or the like which may communicate the position information to the wireless communication device and or to a network device such as group communications server and or situation awareness database .

The computer platform may further include a communications module embodied in hardware firmware software or combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the wireless communication device as well as between the wireless communication device and the communication network . The communications module may further include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wired or wireless communication connection. Additionally the communications module is operable for communicating group communication requests position determination initiation requests and any other communications related to push to talk communication or position determination. In one aspect the group communication requests and the position determination initiation requests are communicated in sequence on the same communication channel. In an alternate aspect the group communication requests and the position determination initiation requests are communicated in parallel on separate communication channels. In addition the communications module will receive push to talk communications from the network timing information from satellites position determination assistance information from network devices and any other communications related to push to talk communication or position determination. The communications module may also be operable to provide communication positional data to a central network entity such as a situational awareness database shown in .

Referring to in one aspect wireless communication device for monitoring voice quality comprises a cellular telephone. A cellular telephone system may include wireless network connected to wired network via a carrier network . Wireless devices are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and often can communicate packets including voice and data over wireless network . As described earlier such smart wireless devices have APIs resident on the wireless devices local computer platforms . The APIs allow software developers to create software applications that operate on the wireless device and control certain functionality on the wireless device . In one aspect the wireless devices may store in memory the position actuation module that is operable for actuating position determination based on user inputs to a push to talk communication input mechanism. The position actuation module may operate in conjunction with position location subsystem to communicate with GPS satellites via low power radio or satellite network and or network based entities such as position assistance determining server via the wireless network and or the wired network .

In the cellular telephone system a network device such as group communications server can be in communication over a wired network e.g. a local area network LAN etc. with a separate data repository for storing the situational awareness data or additional location related data for the devices in one or more call groups and or for one or more wireless devices. Further position assistance determining server may be in communication with group communications server to provide position assistance data to the wireless devices determine wireless position and or provide for other position determining services. Group communications server situational awareness database and position assistance determining server may be present on the cellular telephone system with any other network components that are needed to provide push to talk group communication services and or cellular telecommunication services. Group communications server and or position assistance determining server communicate with carrier network through data links and which may be data links such as the Internet a secure LAN wide area network WAN or other network. Carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . Further carrier network communicates with MSC by a network such as the Internet and or plain old telephone service POTS . In network a network or Internet portion transfers data and the POTS portion transfers voice information. MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS by another network such as a data network and or Internet portion for data transfer and a POTS portion for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless devices such as wireless devices such as by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods.

Referring to shown are message flow diagrams detailing the wireless communication device location determination in four different modes of operation. It should be noted that the modes detailed in are by way of example only and any other location determination process or mode may be used once actuation of location determination is initiated in accordance with the aspects herein described.

At Event in one aspect the wireless device uses the assistance information to set the parameters for receiving GPS signals and at Event the wireless device receives the timing signals broadcasted from GPS satellites . At Event the wireless device decodes the GPS signals which may include using the assistance information to aid in setting the decoded parameters. At Event the wireless device uses the decoded timing information to make measurements related to the distance from the GPS satellites. At Event the wireless device communicates the measurement information to a network device such as a position assistance determining server . At Event the network device uses the measurement information and executes a position determining function which may be similar to the function provided by position determinator to determine a device position. At Event the network device may optionally communicate the device position to the wireless device or at Event the network device may communicate the device position to a centralized control center server such as a server associated with a situational awareness database or it may communicate the device position to the other members of the push to talk group communication call not shown in .

In an alternative aspect all of the above Events may not occur if the position determination is based solely on network based information. For example at Event one or more network entities may communicate assistance information to wireless device where the assistance information may comprise network based timing information and or network entity identifiers. For example the network based timing information may be timing signals between the wireless device and a plurality of network entities where these timing signals may be used to determine a wireless device location. Further in this example the wireless device may calculate the wireless device s position based on the network based timing signals utilizing a position determining function or the wireless device may pass the measurements on to a network entity for performance of the calculation and returning of the position information. In another example the network identifiers may include base station identifiers cell identifiers or any other network entity identifier that may be associated with a location and thus which may be utilized to determine a general location of wireless device . Further in the latter example the network identifiers may thereby comprise or be associated with the device location information.

At Event the wireless device uses the assistance information to set the parameters for receiving GPS signals and at Event the wireless device receives the timing signals broadcasted from GPS satellites . At Event the wireless device decodes the GPS signals using the assistance information to aid in setting the decoded parameters. At Event wireless network information which may include one or more components similar to the assistance information and ranging information is communicated from a network device such as a position assistance determination server . At Event the wireless device uses the decoded timing information and the wireless network information to calculate a device position. At Event the wireless device may optionally communicate the device position to a network device such as a control center server associated with a situational awareness database or it may communicate the device position to the other members of the push to talk group communication call not shown in .

According to one aspect is an example of a tracking map that may be displayed on a wireless device display or displayed at a network control center. further provides an example of one implementation wherein position location information is provided to group call users and or control center administrators. Of course should not be construed as limiting. Other presentations of position location are feasible and contemplated and within the purview of the present aspects. The map is comprised of a grid of streets and may be stored at the wireless device network device and updated via an Internet connection. In the illustrated aspect three wireless device users for example volunteer firefighters are participating in a push to talk group communication and responding to an emergency request at house . The current positions of the three wireless device users are represented by the large circular shaped icons and . In accordance with one aspect the current positions may be associated with the most current request for the floor of a group communication call on each of the three users wireless devices. The small circular shaped icons and are associated with a respective large circular shaped icon and and represent previous positions of each wireless device user. In accordance with one aspect the three previous positions may be associated with the three previous requests for the floor of a group communication call excluding the most current request on each of the users wireless devices. For example a user having a current position represented by large icon previously was located at positions represented by small icons and . Similarly a user having a current position represented by large icon previously was located at positions represented by small icons and and a user having a current position represented by large icon previously was located at positions represented by small icons and . The illustrated example provides the user such as a call participant or a network administrator with the ability to locate one or more group call participants and or track the routes taken by call participants and or to track the progress of the call participants as the call participants move closer to a desired locale.

Referring to a flow diagram is depicted that represents a method for actuating position determination in a wireless device. At Event the wireless device receives a user input for push to talk communication. The user input may include engaging and holding a designated button or key or the user input may be any other user input to a designated input mechanism. For example a voice input to a microphone for a voice recognition equipped wireless device a touch screen input to a touch screen display and the like. At Event position determination is actuated in response to receiving the user input for push to talk communication. Actuation of position determination may typically involve establishing communication with a position determining entity such as a satellite a network position assisting and or determining server or the like. It should be noted that any feasible position determining process may be implemented by the wireless communication device to determine position.

Additional details and examples of specific methods that may be implemented by the wireless device and the wireless network to determine device position are provided with respect to . Of course the subject methods should not be construed as limiting as other methods of position determination are contemplated and may be used in conjunction with present aspects.

At Event based on the actuation of the position determining functionality the method includes the wireless device measuring timing information received from the positioning satellites. The timing information is used at Event to determine wireless device to satellite measurements and the measurements are used to calculate device position such as geographic coordinates of the device. At optional Event the wireless device may communicate the device position to the wireless network such as to a situational awareness database and or forwarded to the other push to talk group call participants.

At Event the wireless device receives assistance data from the network and at Event based on the assistance data establishes parameters for receiving timing information from positioning satellites. At Event the wireless device receives timing information from the positioning satellites. The timing information is used at Event to determine wireless device to satellite measurements and the measurements are used to calculate device position. At optional Event the wireless device may communicate the device position to the wireless network such as to a situational awareness database and or forwarded to the other push to talk group call participants.

At Event the wireless device receives assistance data from the network and at Event based on the assistance data establishes parameters for receiving timing information from positioning satellites. At Event the wireless device receives timing information from the positioning satellites. At Event the wireless device determines satellite to wireless device measurements based on the timing information. At Event the measurement information is communicated to a network device such as a position determining server that is operable for determining the device position. At optional Event the wireless device receives the device position from the network device.

At Event the wireless device receives assistance data from the network and at Event based on the assistance data establishes parameters for receiving timing information from positioning satellites. At Event the wireless device receives timing information from the positioning satellites. At Event the wireless device receives network information from a network device. The timing information and network information is used at Event to calculate device position. At optional Event the wireless device may communicate the device position to the wireless network such as to a situational awareness database and or forwarded to the other push to talk group call participants.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further in one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be sued to carry or store desired program code means in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or a general purpose or special purpose processor. Also any connection is properly termed a computer0readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microware then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microware are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or implementations it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or implementations as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or implementation may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or implementation unless stated otherwise.

Thus the described aspects provide for systems methods devices apparatus and machine readable medium that provide for actuation of position determination in a wireless device based on a user input to an input mechanism associated with push to talk communication. By marrying actuation of position determination with a user s request for push to talk communication i.e. a request for a talk spurt in a PTT communication the user is not required to perform any additional position determining initiating action to start the position determining process. In addition the actuation of position determination is coupled with the initiation of another function on the wireless device specifically a push to talk request which benefits from having accurate and current position data available for all current call members and or a group administrator or the like. Therefore present aspects allow actuating position determination without requiring extraneous actions on behalf of the user or the network while providing accurate and current positional data to push to talk communications.

Many modifications and other aspects will come to mind of one skilled in the art to which the subject feature pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the subject aspects are not to be limiting and that modifications and other implementations are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein such terms are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

