---

title: Process for reducing non-uniformities in the density of sintered materials
abstract: There is disclosed a pre-sintering process for reducing non-uniformities in the density of a sintered material comprising (a) providing a mixture of (i) a first sinterable material containing a contaminant the presence of which during sintering of the first sinterable material results in a higher vapor pressure than would occur during sintering of pure first sinterable material and (ii) a second material having a higher affinity for the contaminant than does the first sinterable material; and (b) heating the mixture at a temperature and for a time sufficient to allow the second material to at least partly mitigate the propensity of the contaminant to raise the vapor pressure during the sintering of the first sinterable material. Other embodiments are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07547408&OS=07547408&RS=07547408
owner: General Electric Company
number: 07547408
owner_city: Niskayuna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060728
---
The invention described or claimed herein was made with U.S. Government support under Government Contract No. W56 HZV 05 C 0517 awarded by the U.S. Army Research TACOM LCMC Warren. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to a process for reducing non uniformities in the density of sintered materials.

In both oxide and non oxide metal and ceramic materials impurities such as halogens especially chlorine and fluorine can evolve as a gas during sintering of the materials as can oxygen impurities in non oxide metals and ceramic materials. Such evolved gases may react with the metal or ceramic materials to form one or more secondary gaseous species containing one or more of the constituent elements of the metal or ceramic material thus effectively raising the vapor pressure of the metal or ceramic material where vapor pressure refers to the total partial pressure of all gaseous species containing cation s of the sintering material. This can in turn lead to evaporation condensation coarsening of the microstructure. Uneven evaporation condensation coarsening of the microstructure during sintering can cause density gradients to form in the material e.g. to a more dense exterior than interior and limit the densities attainable. Ness Rafaniello J. Am. Cer. Soc. 77 2879 2874 1994 portions of Sweeney Permeability Drying and Sintering of Pressure Filtered Ceramic Nanopowders Ph.D. Thesis The Pennsylvania State University 2005 and U.S. Pat. No. 2 834 651 the contents of all of which are incorporated herein by reference are believed to represent relevant prior art.

There is provided in accordance with an embodiment of the invention a pre sintering process for reducing non uniformities in the density of a sintered material the pre sintering process comprising a providing a mixture of i a first sinterable material containing a contaminant the presence of which during sintering of the first sinterable material results in a higher vapor pressure than would occur during sintering of pure first sinterable material and ii a second material having a higher affinity for the contaminant than does the first sinterable material and b heating the mixture at a temperature and for a time sufficient to allow the second material to at least partly mitigate the propensity of the contaminant to raise the vapor pressure during the sintering of the first sinterable material.

There is also provided in accordance with an embodiment of the invention a process for improving the uniformity of density in a sintered material the process comprising a providing a mixture of i a first sinterable material containing a contaminant the presence of which results in non uniform density in the first sinterable material during sintering of the first sinterable material and ii a second material having a higher affinity for the contaminant than does the first sinterable material and b heating the mixture at a first temperature below the sintering temperature of the first sinterable material and for a first time sufficient to allow the second material to at least partly mitigate the propensity of the presence of the contaminant to result in non uniform density during the sintering of the first sinterable material.

 Sintering refers to the agglomeration of metal glass or ceramic powders into a coherent mass at a temperature below the melting point. Sintering occurs in both powder metallurgy and ceramic firing.

The term oxide when used with respect to a sinterable material refers to a mineral in which metallic atoms are bonded to oxygen atoms. Examples of sinterable oxide materials include but are not limited to KO NaO LiO ZnO BeO CuO FeO SiO UO BiO CoO MnO TiO MgO ZrO BaO ThO TaO AlO NbO CaO NiO SrO CrO VO BO HfO YO MnO BaTiO MgAlO YAlO and FeO.

The term non oxide when used with respect to a sinterable material refers to a mineral which in principle does not contain oxygen atoms or which forms an oxide only on its exposed surface. Examples of sinterable non oxide materials include but are not limited to SiC TiC ZrC BN AlN SiN TiB ZrB HfB HfC TiN and BC.

A contaminant in a sinterable material refers to any material which is contained in or mixed with the sinterable material and the presence of which during sintering contributes to non uniform density in the sintered product. As will be explained by way of example below a common mechanism for a contaminant to contribute to such non uniform density is by reacting with one of the elements in the sinterable material so as to raise the vapor pressure during sintering relative to what the vapor pressure during sintering would be in the absence of the contaminant i.e. if one were sintering a pure sinterable material . Common contaminants include chlorine fluorine and in the case of non oxide sinterable materials oxygen. In the context of this patent application reference to chlorine or fluorine as a contaminant will be understood to include not only Cland Fbut other Cl and F containing materials from which Cl HCl Fand HF respectively can be generated. Similarly reference to oxygen as a contaminant will be understood to include oxygen containing materials from which O CO or COcan be generated.

 Coarsening refers to grain and or pore growth in a material undergoing sintering but without concurrent densification of the material.

The term prevent as used in the present description and claims is not meant to be an absolute term and encompasses reducing decreasing or preventing the occurrence of a phenomenon or the amelioration of the effects of a phenomenon. Thus for example the expression prevent a contaminant from forming a gas should be understood to mean not only eliminating the formation of a gas by the contaminant but reducing or decreasing the formation of a gas by the contaminant.

As stated in accordance with an embodiment of the invention there is provided a pre sintering process for reducing non uniformities in the density of a sintered material the pre sintering process comprising a providing a mixture of i a first sinterable material containing a contaminant the presence of which during sintering of the first sinterable material results in a higher vapor pressure than would occur during sintering of pure first sinterable material and ii a second material having a higher affinity for the contaminant than does the first sinterable material and b heating the mixture at a temperature and for a time sufficient to allow the second material to at least partly mitigate the propensity of the contaminant to raise the vapor pressure during the sintering of the first sinterable material.

In accordance with some embodiments of the invention the second material reacts with the contaminant to prevent the contaminant from forming a gas at the sintering temperature of the sinterable material. In accordance with other embodiments of the invention the second material reacts with the contaminant to form a fluid at a temperature below the sintering temperature of the first sinterable material the fluid being sufficiently volatile to be eliminated from the first sinterable material before the first sinterable material reaches the sintering temperature.

In some embodiments of the invention the sinterable material is anon oxide. In some embodiments the non oxide is chosen from SiC TiC ZrC BN AlN SiN TiB ZrB HfB HfC TiN and BC. In some embodiments when the sinterable material is a non oxide the contaminant is oxygen.

In some embodiments of the invention the contaminant is chlorine. In some embodiments the contaminant is fluorine.

In some embodiments of the invention the first sinterable material is an oxide. In some embodiments the first sinterable material is chosen from KO NaO LiO ZnO BeO CuO FeO SiO UO BiO CoO MnO TiO MgO ZrO BaO ThO TaO AlO NbO CaO NiO SrO CrO VO BO YO MnO HfO BaTiO MgAlO YAlO FeO and mixtures thereof.

In some embodiments of the invention the contaminant is chlorine and the first sinterable material is chosen from in order of generally decreasing affinity of the cation for forming a gaseous species with chlorine KO NaO LiO ZnO BeO CuO FeO SiO UO BiO CoO MnO TiO MgO ZrO BaO ThO TaO AlO NbO CaO NiO SrO CrO VO BO HfO YOand mixtures thereof. In other embodiments of the invention the contaminant is fluorine and the first sinterable material is chosen from in order of generally decreasing affinity of the cation for forming a gaseous species with fluorine KO NaO BO AlO LiO BeO CuO FeO SiO UO BiO CoO NiO TiO MgO ZrO2 BaO ThO TaO NbO CaO SrO CrO VO YOand mixtures thereof.

In accordance with some embodiments of the invention the second material is an alkali metal or an alkali metal salt. In some embodiments of the invention the second material is a lithium material. In some embodiments of the invention the first sinterable material is an oxide and the lithium material is chosen from lithium metal lithium salts or other lithium containing compounds in which the non lithium component anion or other non lithium component will be eliminated from the salt or lithium containing compound at a temperature below 1000 degrees Celsius. In some embodiments of the invention the first sinterable material is an oxide and the lithium material is chosen from lithium oxide lithium peroxide lithium oxalate lithium carbonate lithium carbide lithium nitride lithium tert butoxide lithium tartrate and lithium stearate or a combination thereof. In other embodiments of the invention the first material is a non oxide and the lithium material is provided in the form of lithium metal. In other embodiments of the invention the first sinterable material is a boride and the lithium material is provided in the form of lithium boride. In other embodiments of the invention the first sinterable material is a carbide and the lithium material is provided in the form of lithium carbide. In other embodiments of the invention the first sinterable material is a nitride and the lithium material is provided in the form of lithium nitride. In accordance with some embodiments of the invention the molar ratio of alkali metal or alkali metal salt to contaminant is from about 1 1 to about 1.2 1. In some embodiments of the invention the amount of alkali metal or alkali metal salt relative to the contaminant is from 95 of stoichiometric equivalent to 1000 stoichiometric excess. In some embodiments of the invention the amount of alkali metal or alkali metal salt relative to the contaminant is from 95 of stoichiometric equivalent to 100 stoichiometric excess. In some embodiments of the invention the amount of alkali metal or alkali metal salt relative to the contaminant is from a stoichiometric equivalent to 20 stoichiometric excess. In some embodiments of the invention the amount of alkali metal or alkali metal salt relative to said contaminant is from a 20 stoichiometric excess to a 1000 stoichiometric excess. In some embodiments of the invention the amount of alkali metal or alkali metal salt relative to said contaminant is from a 20 stoichiometric excess to a 100 stoichiometric excess.

In accordance with some embodiments of the invention the second material is selected from the group consisting of alkaline earth metals and salts thereof.

In accordance with some embodiments of the invention the temperature at which the mixture is heated is below the sintering temperature of the sinterable material. In some embodiments of the invention the temperature is from 400 1000 degrees Celsius. In some embodiments of the invention the temperature is from 650 1100 degrees Celsius. In some embodiments of the invention the temperature is from 650 800 degrees Celsius.

As stated there is also provided in accordance with an embodiment of the invention a process for improving the uniformity of density in a sintered material the process comprising a providing a mixture of i a first sinterable material containing a contaminant the presence of which results in non uniform density in the first sinterable material during sintering of the first sinterable material and ii a second material having a higher affinity for the contaminant than does the first sinterable material and b heating the mixture at a first temperature below the sintering temperature of the first sinterable material and for a first time sufficient to allow the second material to at least partly mitigate the propensity of the presence of the contaminant to result in non uniform density during the sintering of the first sinterable material. In accordance with a variation of this embodiment of the invention the process comprises further heating the mixture for a second time and at a second temperature higher than the first temperature sufficient to sinter the first sinterable material. In some embodiments of the invention the mixture is not cooled between steps b and c . In other embodiments of the invention the mixture is allowed to cool between steps b and c .

To help illustrate some embodiments of the invention an example will now be discussed in which the sinterable material is zirconia and the contaminant is chlorine. However it will readily be appreciated by those skilled in the art that this example is merely illustrative and that the invention is not limited to the embodiments illustrated by this example.

Zirconia and chlorine as HCl or Cl can react in the following manner ZrO 4HCl ZrCl 2HO ZrO 2Cl ZrCl O When these reactions proceed to the right they effectively constitute evaporation and when they proceed to the left they effectively constitute condensation. The higher the partial pressures of HCl and Cl the higher the partial pressure of ZrCl. This results in both coarsening of the zirconia during sintering and greater density gradients. In particular in this example ZrClgas will escape more readily from the sample surface than from the interior. As a result lower HCl partial pressure and thus lower ZrClpartial pressure will exist at the sample surface leading to a gradient in coarsening and thereby producing a material with a more dense exterior surface than interior surface i.e. a density gradient.

To determine the maximum tolerable chlorine level in the initial powder to be sintered criteria known to one skilled in the art can be used. The rate of HCl or Clevolution may be transformed to a partial pressure distribution in the sample. The measured rate of HCl or Clevolution as determined by thermo gravimetric analysis TGA and or thermal desorption mass spectrometry may be used to calculate a partial pressure distribution of the HCl or Clgas in the sample as well as partial pressure distribution of any gas from the sintering atmosphere such as oxygen when sintering in air . Thermodynamic calculations may then be performed to determine the vapor pressure of the sintering species under this mixture of gas partial pressure distributions. The vapor pressure can in turn be used to calculate rates of neck growth due to evaporation condensation coarsening. Based upon these calculations the HCl or Clgas evolution rate should be maintained below the critical value at which the rate of neck growth due to evaporation condensation coarsening exceeds the rate of neck growth due to densification in the center of the sample.

In this example in accordance with embodiments of the present invention in order to suppress the formation of ZrClgas and thereby decrease or eliminate the density gradient an appropriate amount of a second material having a higher affinity for chlorine than does Zr is added to the zirconium oxide prior to sintering. In some embodiments particles of the second material may be mixed with particles of ZrO whereas in other embodiments the ZrOmay be chemically doped with the second material i.e. the ZrOmay be formed in the presence of the second material so that particles of ZrOcontain the second material as well. In this example where the ZrOhas a chlorine containing contaminant lithium may be added for example by mixing particles of lithium oxide lithium peroxide lithium oxalate lithium carbonate lithium carbide lithium nitride lithium tert butoxide lithium tartrate or lithium stearate with ZrO. For example one may create a suspension of ZrOin water dissolve the lithium compound in the water and then dry the mixture so that the lithium compound mixed with zirconia particles remains. A lithium solution could also be added to a powder compact or bisque fired partially sintered compact allowing the lithium solution to penetrate the pores of the compact and then drying the compact or lithium metal powder could be melt infiltrated into the compact. Alternatively a gaseous lithium compound may be brought into contact with the sinterable material during sintering the gaseous compound being either introduced from the outside or generated in situ. Lithium metal or a lithium compound may also be dry mixed with a powder of the sinterable material and incorporated into the powder by calcination prior to powder consolidation into a powder compact. The amount of lithium or more generally second material should be enough to stoichometrically compensate for all the chlorine or more generally contaminant although it will be appreciated that using less than a stoichiometric equivalent may still be beneficial. In some embodiments of the invention a stoichiometric equivalent or slight stoichiometric excess e.g. 1 1.2 equivalents will be sufficient. In other embodiments of the invention a larger stoichiometric excess e.g. 1.2 2.0 equivalents or even up to 11 equivalents may be used.

In an analogous manner the presence of a chlorine contaminant in MgO can result in the formation of density gradients during sintering. In accordance with embodiments of the invention addition of a sodium containing material to the MgO prior to sintering can ameliorate the effects of the contaminant and decrease or eliminate the density gradient. In the case of magnesium aluminum oxide having a residual chlorine containing impurity the addition of lithium nitrate prior to vacuum sintering reduced the degree of density gradient in comparison to a sample containing the same concentration of chlorine contaminant as indicated by the higher density of the sample made with lithium nitrate addition.

In addition to zirconia other examples of sinterable materials that may be affected by contaminants are SiC TiC ZrC BN AlN SiN TiB ZrB HfB HfC TiN and BC non oxide materials KO NaO LiO ZnO BeO CuO FeO SiO UO BiO CoO MnO TiO MgO ZrO BaO ThO TaO AlO NbO CaO NiO SrO CrO VO BO YO MnO HfO BaTiO MgAlO YAlO and FeO oxide materials . Chlorine and fluorine are typical contaminants in both types of materials and oxygen may be a contaminant in oxide materials.

In general the greater the affinity of the second material for the contaminant the better the results that will be obtained provided that the presence of the second material does not result in poorer properties for the sintered material such as reduced optical transmission or decreased mechanical strength than if the second material were not present. An appropriate sintering schedule will vary depending on the material being sintered the nature of the contaminant and the second material being used to reduce non uniform densities in the sintered product. One way to determine a sintering schedule is to vary the rates at which similar samples are heated the temperatures at which similar samples are held and the durations for which similar samples are held at those temperatures and to compare the density density gradient optical transparency if applicable or other density dependent properties to ascertain the optimal sintering schedule and amount of second material to be used. Alternatively one may perform dilatometry experiments to determine a master sintering curve see Su Johnson J. Am. Cer. Soc. 79 12 3211 3217 1996 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference and perform thermal desorption mass spectrometry and or thermogravimetric analysis TGA experiments to determine a master decomposition curve see DiAntionia et al. J. Am. Cer. Soc. 88 10 2722 2728 2005 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference . This enables prediction of both the sintering rate and evolution rate of HCl or other gas under any given sintering conditions. A spreadsheet computer program may thus be used to calculate the sintering rate and gas evolution rate for a variety of samples and conditions. From the gas evolution rate the partial pressure distribution in the sample may be calculated. From this information it may be calculated when densification will predominate over coarsening at all points in the sample during sintering and when use of a second material as described above is advised.

Dilatometry bars were uniaxially pressed in a hardened steel die to 43 MPa followed by cold isostatic pressing in a latex bag to 275 MPa. The green densities of the bars as measured by geometry were 54 of theoretical and the dimensions of the bars after the dilatometry test were approximately 5.2 mm 5.8 mm 14.6 mm. The dilatometer was operated under vacuum at 5 C. min to 1600 C. with no hold at temperature. One sample Sample 1 was made from a magnesium aluminum oxide MgAlO powder containing 9 ppm chlorine by weight and 

The written description uses examples to disclose the invention including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims and many include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal languages of the claims.

