---

title: Ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus
abstract: The present invention aims at providing an ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus capable of displaying a stable spatial distribution of elastic characteristics for each heart beat without depending on the measurement of blood pressure and the accuracy or stability of such measurement, where an ultrasonic wave transmitted from an ultrasonic probe  and reflected by biomedical tissue is input to a computing section  by way of a receiving section  a delay time control section , phase detection section  and filter section . In accordance with the phase detection signal acquired from the phase detection section  the computing section  computes a relative elastic characteristic which is an elastic characteristic normalized by an elastic characteristic of an arbitrary reference area in the biomedical tissue. A distribution of relative elastic characteristics computed by the computing section is displayed on a display section 
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07946987&OS=07946987&RS=07946987
owner: Panasonic Corporation
number: 07946987
owner_city: Osaka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20060720
---
The present invention relates to an ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus for measuring a character of a tissue in a living body more particularly an elastic characteristic of a vascular wall tissue.

The number of patients suffering from circulatory diseases such as cardiac infarction or brain infarction is increasing recently and prevention and treatment of these diseases has posed a big problem.

Arterial sclerosis has a close relationship with the onset of cardiac infarction and brain infarction. Specifically when an atheroma is formed on an arterial wall or when new cells of an arterial wall are created for various reasons such as high blood pressure the artery loses elasticity to thus become hard and fragile. As a result of a blood vessel being closed at a position where the atheroma is formed or a vascular tissue covering the atheroma becoming ruptured the atheroma flows into the blood vessel to thus close another location of the artery or rupture a hardened region of the artery. In this way the diseases are induced. Therefore early diagnosis of arterial sclerosis becomes important for prevention or treatment of these diseases.

Manifestation of arterial sclerosis has recently been diagnosed by means of direct observation of an internal state of the blood vessel through use of a vessel catheter. However this diagnosis involves a problem of a necessity for insertion of a vessel catheter into a blood vessel thereby imposing heavy load on a subject. Therefore observation involving the use of the vessel catheter is employed for a subject who is sure to have a lesion into which arterial sclerosis has developed to thus locate the lesion. This method has never been used as for example a test for health care.

Measurement of a cholesterol level which is one cause of arterial sclerosis or a blood pressure level is a test which imposes a small burden on the subject and which can be practiced readily. However these values do not directly indicate the degree of arterial sclerosis.

So long as arterial sclerosis can be early diagnosed and a therapeutic medicine for arterial sclerosis can be administered to the subject the medicine becomes effective for treatment of arterial sclerosis. Once arterial sclerosis has progressed further progress of arterial sclerosis can be inhibited by the therapeutic medicine. However complete recovery of a hardened artery is said to be difficult to be made.

For these reasons there has been sought a diagnostic method or a diagnostic apparatus which diagnoses arterial sclerosis in its early stage with involvement of a small burden on the subject before it progresses.

In the meantime an ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus and an X ray diagnostic apparatus have heretofore been used as a noninvasive medical diagnostic apparatus which imposes a small burden on the subject. Geometrical information about the inside of a body or information about a chronological change in the internal shape of the body can be acquired without causing pain in the subject by radiation of an ultrasonic wave or an X ray onto the body from the outside. As a result of acquisition of the information about a chronological change in the shape of an object of measurement in the body i.e. motion information information about the character of the object of measurement can be obtained. Specifically an elastic characteristic of the blood vessel in the body can be determined and the degree of arterial sclerosis can be ascertained directly. In particular when compared with the X ray diagnosis the ultrasonic diagnosis enables performance of measurement by means of bringing an ultrasonic probe into contact with the subject. Accordingly the ultrasonic diagnosis is superior because it obviates a necessity for administration of a contrast medium or a risk of X ray exposure.

Recent advancement of electronics technology enables remarkable enhancement of the accuracy of measurement of the ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus. In association with this development of an ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus which measures micromotion of biomedical tissue is in progress. For instance use of a technique described in Patent Document 1 enables high precision measurement of a vibrational component of vasomotion whose amplitude is of several microns and which is as fast as several hundreds of hertz and hence high precision measurement of a change in the thickness of the vascular wall or the distortion of the wall to an order of microns is reported to become practicable.

Patent Document 1 discloses a technique for noninvasively measuring a waveform of motion speed of each location in biomedical tissue through use of an ultrasonic wave thereby determining an elastic modulus of a microarea. Since use of a tissue tracking technique described in Patent Document 1 enables high precision measurement of vasomotion a chronological change h t in the thickness of an arterial wall can be measured high accuracy. Provided that the thickness of the arterial wall acquired at the time of measurement of low blood pressure is h that the maximum amount of change in the thickness of the arterial wall acquired in one cardiac cycle is h and that pulse pressure is p a radial elastic modulus E of an arterial wall is determined as follows Eq. 1 

Use of such a high precision measurement technique enables detailed measurement of a two dimensional distribution of elastic characteristics of the arterial wall. For instance Non Patent Document 1 describes an example illustration showing a two dimensional distribution of elastic modulus of a carotid arterial wall superimposed on a B mode tomogram. The degree of hardness of the arterial wall is not uniform and the hardness of the arterial wall is present in the form of a certain distribution. Accurately grasping a localized distribution of elastic modulus which is a feature quantity representing the degree of hardness of an artery is important for diagnosing arterial sclerosis.

Non Patent Document 1 Hiroshi Kanai et al. Elasticity Imaging of Atheroma With Transcutaneous Ultrasonic Preliminary Study Circulation Vol. 107 pp. 3018 to 3021 2003.

However the disclosed technique encounters a problem provided below. In order to determine the elastic modulus E of the arterial wall as indicated by Eq. 1 the pulse pressure p must be measured. Although an elastic modulus determined from the maximum amount of change in thickness achieved during one cardiac cycle can be measured once in one cardiac cycle actual blood pressure slightly changes for each heart beat. In order to determine a more accurate elastic modulus pulse pressure must be measured once in one cardiac cycle. However a commonly used intermittent method typified by a cuff type sphygmomanometer cannot determine pulse pressure for each heart beat. Moreover since a blood flow of the subject is temporarily closed by the cuff type blood pressure measurement method the method is unsuitable for long hours of use. Further according to a continuous method typified by a tonometer capable of measuring blood pressure for each heart beat pulse pressure can be measured for each heart beat. However additional equipment is required which in turn complicates measurement of an elastic modulus. Another problem of an increase in burden imposed on the subject is also encountered.

In light of the above the present invention aims at providing an ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus capable of displaying a stable spatial distribution of elastic characteristics for each heart beat without depending on the accuracy and stability of measurement of blood pressure and without involvement of measurement of blood pressure.

a transmission section for driving an ultrasonic probe for transmitting an ultrasonic transmission wave to biomedical tissue 

a receiving section which amplifies a reflected ultrasonic wave acquired as a result of reflection of the ultrasonic transmission wave from the biomedical tissue and received by the ultrasonic probe to thus generate a received signal 

a computing section which determines an amount of change in thickness arising at a plurality of positions within the biomedical tissue from a phase detection signal acquired from the phase detection section and which computes a relative elastic characteristic from a value determined by dividing a maximum amount of change in thickness acquired from an arbitrary reference area in the biomedical tissue by a maximum amount of change in thickness acquired from another area and

a display section for displaying a distribution of the relative elastic characteristics computed by the computing section. According to the present invention an accurate stable distribution of elastic characteristics can be determined without measuring pulse pressure of a subject at all.

a transmission section for driving an ultrasonic probe for transmitting an ultrasonic transmission wave to biomedical tissue 

a receiving section which amplifies a reflected ultrasonic wave acquired as a result of reflection of the ultrasonic transmission wave from the biomedical tissue and received by the ultrasonic probe to thus generate a received signal 

a computing section which determines distortions appearing at a plurality of positions within the biomedical tissue from a phase detection signal acquired from the phase detection section and which computes a relative elastic characteristic from a value determined by dividing distortion arising in an arbitrary reference area in the biomedical tissue by a distortion appearing in another area and

a display section for displaying a distribution of the relative elastic characteristics computed by the computing section. According to the present invention an accurate stable distribution of elastic characteristics can be determined without measuring pulse pressure of a subject at all.

a transmission section for driving an ultrasonic probe for transmitting an ultrasonic transmission wave to biomedical tissue 

a receiving section which amplifies a reflected ultrasonic wave acquired as a result of reflection of the ultrasonic transmission wave from the biomedical tissue and received by the ultrasonic probe to thus generate a received signal 

a computing section which determines elastic characteristics of a plurality of positions within the biomedical tissue from a phase detection signal acquired from the phase detection section and which computes a relative elastic characteristic from a value determined by dividing an elastic characteristic of another area by an elastic characteristic of an arbitrary reference area in the biomedical tissue and

a display section for displaying a distribution of the relative elastic characteristics computed by the computing section. According to the present invention an accurate stable distribution of elastic characteristics can be determined without depending on the accuracy of measurement of blood pressure of the subject.

In the ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus of the present invention the computing section has a reference area setting section for setting the reference area. According to the present invention an arbitrary area in a spatial elastic characteristic distribution image can be designated to thus take the designated area as a reference area used for computing a relative elastic characteristic.

In the ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus the display section displays the reference area set by the computing section so as to be superimposed on at least one of an ultrasonic tomogram image or an elastic characteristic image. According to the present invention the reference area can be ascertained without fail and a diagnosis based on the distribution of elastic characteristics can be performed easily.

In the ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus the display section displays positional coordinates of the reference area set by the computing section in the form of numerals. According to the present invention the reference area can be ascertained without fail and a diagnosis based on the distribution of elastic characteristics can be performed easily.

As mentioned above an ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus of the present invention includes a transmission section for driving an ultrasonic probe for transmitting an ultrasonic transmission wave to biomedical tissue a receiving section which amplifies a reflected ultrasonic wave acquired as a result of reflection of the ultrasonic transmission wave from the biomedical tissue and received by the ultrasonic probe to thus generate a received signal a phase detection section for subjecting the received signal to phase detection a computing section for computing a relative elastic characteristic which is a normalized elastic characteristic from a phase detection signal acquired from the phase detection section and a display section for displaying a distribution of the relative elastic characteristics computed by the computing section.

According to the present invention a stable spatial distribution of elastic characteristics can be displayed for each heart beat without depending on the accuracy and without involvement of measurement of blood pressure.

According to the present invention an arbitrary area in a spatial elastic characteristic distribution image is designated and another elastic characteristic is computed as an elastic characteristic ratio while an elastic characteristic value of the area or an average of elastic characteristics is taken as a reference and the thus computed ratio is displayed as a spatially distributed image. As a result there can be embodied an ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus capable of displaying a stable spatial distribution of elastic characteristics for each heart beat without depending on the accuracy and stability of measurement of blood pressure and without involvement of measurement of blood pressure.

According to a method described in for example Patent Document 1 the ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus uses both an amplitude and a phase of a detection signal acquired by detection of a received ultrasonic wave signal thereby determining an instantaneous position of an object by means of a limited least square method. The thickness of a microarea in the vascular anterior wall and the amount of a chronological change in thickness can be measured with sufficient accuracy by means of high precision phase tracking the measurement accuracy of an amount of positional change is 0.2 microns . Moreover an elastic characteristic of the microarea in the vascular anterior wall by use of the blood pressure data acquired from the sphygmomanometer . Further the electrocardiographic waveform measured by the electrocardiograph is used as a trigger signal for determining timing for acquisition of data or resetting data. The electrocardiograph can be replaced with a cardiometer or an arterial pulse wave detector which serves as another biomedical signal detection means and a cardiac sound waveform or an arterial pulse waveform can also be used in place of the electrocardiographic waveform. Moreover use of a waveform pertaining to the amount of motion or a waveform pertaining to the amount of change in thickness which is measured by the ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus obviates a necessity for inputting a trigger signal from the outside.

The configuration and operation of the ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus will now be described in detail. is a block diagram showing the configuration of the ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus . The ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus has a transmission section a receiving section a delay time control section a phase detection section a filter section a computing section a computed data storage section and a display section . These sections are controlled by means of an unillustrated computer.

The transmission section generates a predetermined drive pulse signal which drives the ultrasonic probe and outputs the thus generated signal to the ultrasonic probe . An ultrasonic transmission wave transmitted from the ultrasonic probe driven by the drive pulse signal undergoes reflection and scattering on biomedical tissue such as the blood vessel and a resultantly reflected ultrasonic wave is received by the ultrasonic probe . The frequency of the drive pulse used for generating an ultrasonic wave is determined such that a preceding ultrasonic pulse and a subsequent ultrasonic pulse which are adjacent to each other along a time axis do not overlap each other in consideration of the depth of an object of measurement and the acoustic velocity of the ultrasonic wave.

The receiving section amplifies the reflected ultrasonic wave received by the ultrasonic probe to thus generate a received signal. The receiving section includes an amplification section and an A D conversion section neither of these sections are illustrated amplifies the reflected ultrasonic wave and converts the amplified wave further into a digital signal. The transmission section and the receiving section are built from an electronic component or the like.

The delay time control section is connected to the transmission section and the receiving section and controls a delay time of a drive pulse signal imparted from the transmission section to a group of ultrasonic transducers of the ultrasonic probe . As a result the direction of an acoustic line of an ultrasonic beam of the ultrasonic transmission wave transmitted from the ultrasonic probe and a focal depth of the ultrasonic beam are changed. An aperture diameter or the position of a focal point can be changed by means of controlling the delay time of the received signal which is received by the ultrasonic probe and which is generated by the receiving section . An output from the delay time control section is input to the phase detection section .

The phase detection section subjects the received signal delay controlled by the delay time control section to phase detection thereby generating a phase detection signal including an actual section signal and an imaginary section signal. The phase detection signal is input to a filter section . The filter section eliminates high frequency components components reflected from substances other than the object of measurement noise components and the like. The phase detection section and the filter section can also be formed from software or hardware.

The actual section signal and the imaginary section signal of the phase detection signal passed through the filter section are input to the computing section . is a block diagram showing a detailed configuration of the computing section . The computing section includes a reference area setting section an elastic characteristic computing section and a relative elastic characteristic computing section . The computing section can also be formed from software or hardware.

The elastic characteristic computing section computes from the actual section signal and the imaginary section signal of the phase detection signal the motion speed of the biomedical tissue achieved at a plurality of points of measurement and integrates the motion speed thereby determining the amount of movement chronological displacements of respective points of measurement . The amount of change in the thickness of the biomedical tissue the amount of expansion and contraction among the points of measurement is determined from the thus determined amount of movement. Information about one cardiac cycle is received from the electrocardiograph the maximum amount of change in thickness a difference between the maximum amount of change in thickness and the minimum amount of change in thickness acquired during one cardiac cycle and the maximum thickness are determined. Distortion of the biomedical tissue is determined from the maximum amount of change in thickness and the maximum thickness and an elastic characteristic of the biomedical tissue located between the respective points of measurement is determined by use of blood pressured at a acquired from the sphygmomanometer .

The thus determined elastic characteristic of the biomedical tissue is mapped in correspondence to a measurement area and the mapping is output to the display section as a spatially distributed image acquired during each cardiac cycle. When an operator of the ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus has not caused the reference area setting section to set a reference area the relative elastic characteristic computing section performs no processing. Processing performed when the reference area setting section is caused to set a reference area will be described later.

These computing operations performed by the computing section will be described in a further detailed manner by reference to . schematically shows an ultrasonic beam propagating through a living body . shows biomedical tissue a vascular wall and blood other than the blood vessel. An ultrasonic transmission wave transmitted from the ultrasonic probe located on the surface of the living body propagates through the living body . The ultrasonic transmission wave propagates through the living body as the ultrasonic beam having a certain finite width. During the course of propagation of the beam the ultrasonic beam undergoes reflection or scattering on the vascular wall the blood and the like and a portion of the reflected or scattered ultrasonic wave returns to the ultrasonic probe and is received as a reflected ultrasonic wave. The reflected ultrasonic wave is detected as a discrete time series signal r t . As the reflected time series signal is acquired from a tissue closer to the ultrasonic probe the signal is located closer to the point of origin along the time axis. The width beam size of the ultrasonic beam can be controlled by means of changing a delay time.

At the time of commencement of measurement a plurality of points of measurement P P P P . . . P . . . P where n is a natural number of three or more located along an acoustic line that is a center axis of the ultrasonic beam are arranged at given intervals L in sequence of P P P . . . P . . . Pfrom the ultrasonic probe . The phase detection section subjects the reflected wave signal r t to orthogonal detection by use of a predetermined detection frequency thereby determining a detection signal R t consisting of an actual section signal and an imaginary section signal and the thus determined signal is caused to pass through the filter section . Under the constraint that the amplitude of the detection signal R t and the amplitude of a detection signal R t t acquired after elapse of a minute time t remain unchanged and that only the phase of the signal and a reflection point change the elastic characteristic computing section of the computing section performs correlation computation of the detection signal R t and R t t and a correlation signal Q t of the position Pis determined by Eq. 2 . designates a complex conjugate Eq. 2 

An angle t formed from an actual section and an imaginary section of the correlation signal Q t is determined and a chronological change in a point of measurement P that is the amount of movement h t of the position P is determined from the angle t .

An amount of change H t which is the amount of expansion and contraction of the target tissue Tis determined as H t h t h t from the points of measurement Pand Pand amounts of movement h t and h t .

A change in the thickness of the tissue Tof the vascular wall arises according to a change in blood pressure caused by a heart rate and is iterated essentially in synchronism with the cardiac cycle. Consequently the elastic characteristic is preferably determined as a numeral for each cardiac cycle in synchronism with the cardiac cycle. The maximum value and the minimum value are extracted from the amount of change H t in thickness achieved during one cardiac cycle and a difference between the maximum value and the minimum value is taken as the maximum amount of change in thickness H. A difference between the maximum blood pressure and the minimum blood pressure is taken as pulse pressure p. When the maximum value or an initial value of the thickness of the target tissue is taken as H His expressed as L k 1 k L and hence a distortion sand an elastic characteristic can be determined by Eq. 3 and Eq. 4 . Eq. 3 Eq. 4 

The number of points of measurement Pn and an interval between the points of measurement can be set arbitrarily in accordance with a characteristic of living tissue which is an objective of measurement or a target of measurement.

The following problem exists in the elastic characteristic which is determined by the above mentioned method and which is displayed on the display section . The elastic characteristic is determined by means of dividing the pulse pressure by the distortion S and pulse pressure must be measured for each heart beat in order to determine an accurate elastic characteristic. In general many subjects have essentially constant pulse pressure. Handling the pulse pressure measured immediately before measurement of an elastic characteristic as being non changing for several minutes to several tens of minutes is very preferable in terms of ease of measurement. However for instance when the pulse pressure of the subject is unstable for each heart beat measurement of pulse pressure for each heart beat is required. Use of a tonometer or the like enables measurement of pulse pressure measured for each heart beat but raises a problem of a necessity for another device or complication of a measurement system.

A technique for solving the problem will be described in detail hereunder. is a view schematically showing the distribution of elastic characteristics in the region of interest when the region of interest is set in a portion on the vascular wall. The region of interest is set so as to simultaneously include an adventitia of the vascular wall and an intima media complex and elastic characteristic values of respective microareas determined by the computing section are coded according to a preset color scheme whereby a spatially distributed image is formed.

Operation of the ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus performed when the relative elastic characteristic is determined will be described by reference to . The operator finds a healthy area from an image pertaining to the distribution of elastic characteristics appearing on the display section and activates the reference area setting section to thus set the reference area such as that shown in . Setting is performed by way of an interface section not shown of the ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus . The reference area setting section sends reference area information specified by the operator to the relative elastic characteristic computing section . The relative elastic characteristic computing section first determines an elastic characteristic in the reference area by use of the elastic characteristic sent from the elastic characteristic computing section and subsequently determines the relative elastic characteristic . The relative elastic characteristic is output as a spatially distributed image to the display section as well as being stored in the computed data storage section . It is desirable that the reference area setting section should send the reference position information to the display section so that the operator can set the reference area at an arbitrary position while viewing the display section to thus display the reference position information. Now although a display of the reference area is preferably displayed so as to be superimposed on a B mode tomogram or an elastic characteristic image positional coordinates of the reference area may also be displayed as numerals.

As mentioned above even when the pulse pressure of the subject is unstable or measurement of pulse pressure performed for each heart beat is inaccurate an accurate stable distribution of elastic characteristics can be determined by performing computation described in connection with the embodiment for each heart beat. Moreover an accurate stable distribution of elastic characteristics can be determined without measurement of pulse pressure for each heart beat.

Although the relative elastic characteristic is determined as in the present embodiment it may also be possible to arbitrarily set a constant A and a constant B provided that A B so long as the setting falls within the scope of gist of the present invention.

It is desirable that the reference area should be set in the middle of measurement of an elastic characteristic. However even when data stored in the computed data storage section are read after completion of measurement to thus display an image and when setting is performed in that state an analogous advantage is yielded.

It is desirable that the reference area should be set manually by way of the interface section of the ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus after the operator has determined whether or not tissue is healthy. However for instance an adventitia located in the region of interest maybe extracted by means of an automatic adventitia extraction function and the thus extracted membrane may also be set as the reference area .

Moreover when the operator has determined that a healthy area is not present within the region of interest an elastic characteristic of the same area acquired in the past or an elastic characteristic of another region a region other than the region of interest may also be used. In this case however a difference exists between the times when the areas which are objects of comparison have been measured and hence attention must be paid to the possibility of occurrence of a change in pulse pressure.

A second embodiment of the present invention will now be described. The ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus of the second embodiment has the analogous structure and function as the structure and function of the ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus of the first embodiment excluding the function of the computing section . The same reference numerals are used unless otherwise particularly explained.

As described in connection with the first embodiment the computing section first determines the amount of change in thickness H t of a plurality of micro biomedical tissues Twhich are objects of measurement and determines the maximum amount of change Hin thickness from the thus determined amount of change. Next a distortion Sis computed from the maximum thickness or initial value Hand Hof the target tissue thereby computing the elastic characteristic from the distortion Sand the pulse pressure . A relative elastic characteristic by use of the predetermined reference elastic characteristic .

The relative elastic characteristic can also be determined as shown in Eq. 5 provided that an average value of distortion acquired in the reference area is taken as reference distortion S. Eq. 5 

 Eq. 5 shows that the pulse pressure p does not need to be measured during computation of the relative elastic characteristic . Specifically even in the case of a subject who has unstable pulse pressure and when the pulse pressure is not measured at all an accurate stable distribution of relative elastic characteristics can be determined.

Moreover the relative elastic characteristic can also be expressed as Eq. 6 when an average of amounts of maximum changes in thickness acquired within the reference area is taken as a reference maximum thickness change level H. Eq. 6 

Although in the present embodiment the relative elastic characteristic is determined by use of Eq. 5 and Eq. 6 A B A and B are constants which are arbitrarily set may also be computed to thus utilize so long as utilization of falls within the scope of gist of the present invention. In particular the elastic characteristic can be determined without determination of the elastic characteristic by means of using the reference elastic characteristic for the constant A and 0 for the constant B so long as the maximum amount of change in thickness Hand the distortion Sare determined. The reference elastic characteristic s may also be an actually measured value or a general value or the like acquired from an area such as an adventitia where an individual different is less likely to arise.

As described above computation described in connection with the second embodiment is performed for each hear beat whereby an accurate stable distribution of elastic characteristics can be measured without measuring pulse pressure of the subject at all.

Although the present invention has been described in detail by reference to the specific embodiments it is manifest to persons skilled in the art that the present invention is susceptible to various alterations or modifications without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

The present invention is based on Japanese Patent Application JP A 2005 210233 filed on Jul. 20 2005 in Japan the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus of the present invention can be utilized for an ultrasonic diagnostic apparatus or the like capable of displaying a stable spatial distribution of elastic characteristics for each hear beat without depending on the accuracy or stability of measurement of blood pressure and without involvement of measurement of blood pressure.

