---

title: Method and apparatus for indicating operational state of aircraft engine
abstract: A method and a system for indicating a target idle running speed, a predicted core speed, a predicted time to running, current engine state or automation modes of an operating aircraft engine, and indicating that the current core speed of the aircraft engine is less than a target idle running speed or is abnormally decreasing towards a target idle running speed. The indicators may be visual or aural. The visual indicators may include graphical or numeric symbols indicating the target idle running speed, the direction of core speed change, the predicted core speed at some future time, or current engine state or automation mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07679529&OS=07679529&RS=07679529
owner: The Boeing Company
number: 07679529
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061207
---
The present disclosure relates generally to methods and systems for indicating aircraft engine characteristics such as the operational state of the engines to the flight crew of the airplane.

Modern aircraft engine flight deck displays typically include computer driven display screens dedicated to presenting engine status information. These display screens typically present to the pilots engine data indicating the values of a variety of engine operating parameters. For example the display screens can present a primary engine display shown in and a secondary engine display shown in .

The primary engine display can present top level engine parameter data such as exhaust pressure ratio EPR display fan speed N1 display and exhaust gas temperature EGT display . The primary engine display can include multiple sets of displays two are shown in one set for each engine of the aircraft.

The secondary engine display can include information corresponding to other engine operating parameters. For example the secondary engine display shown in can include turbine shaft rotation speed N2 display fuel flow display oil pressure display oil temperature display oil quantity display and engine vibration display .

One characteristic associated with the foregoing approaches for displaying engine data is that the pilot or other crew member operating the aircraft must be able to quickly and easily monitor view the data integrate and interpret the data and determine whether the data warrant crew awareness or action. If action is required in many cases the pilot must determine what action is most appropriate for the circumstances.

The primary crew tasks are to aviate navigate and communicate. Airplane system related monitoring detection and interpretation tasks should be minimized. The airplane system interface must be simple and salient. During engine start or recovery from a subidle condition the crew must monitor detect and interpret for engine start or recovery progress e.g. recovering not recovering automation modes and sub modes e.g. automatic semi automatic autostart autorelight accommodating for various non normal conditions and engine state e.g. flameout subidle motoring running . Currently no explicit or easy means is provided to aid the crew in determining automation modes and submodes if engine start recovery is progressing normally or how long start recovery will likely take. The resulting crew monitoring detection and interpretation tasks introduce crew workload and error potential. The crew may inappropriately interrupt and delay or terminate engine start. Conversely the crew may not when necessary intervene in a timely manner. Under some circumstances the pilot may need to monitor and interpret whether an engine start is progressing using whatever data information is available.

Ways to provide new information within the context of the existing engine indication paradigm must be found and developed. The present invention provides new starting information to supplement the existing engine indication paradigm. During engine start or recovery from a subidle condition the crew must currently monitor detect and interpret engine parameter indication changes to determine if engine start recovery is progressing acceptably estimate how long engine start recovery will likely take and determine when the engine is running. Monitoring and detection tasks increase crew workload and divert crew attention away from the primary task of flying and navigating the aircraft. Primary crew responsibilities increasing levels and sophistication of engine automation designed to optimize engine start recovery operation the broad range of possible operating conditions and circumstances and the lack of explicit collocated engine automation and state indications make correct accurate crew interpretation of engine indications sometimes difficult.

Prior solutions involve crew monitoring detection interpretation or integration tasks. In addition no explicit engine parameter indication of target idle running speed or engine subidle running state has been provided. The target idle running speed is the core engine speed below which the engine is considered subidle. The target idle running speed is the core engine speed at and above which the engine is considered running can accept electrical and other loads and can generate useful crew controllable thrust. This parameter value varies as a function of altitude temperature and other factors such as engine make and model. Consequently the crew must know recall and typically estimate the engine parameter value at which the engine will be running and or divert time and effort to verify that the engine is running often in a high workload or time critical situation.

There is a need for a system and a method for implementing explicit reliable and meaningful engine start recovery information indications that support crew decision making throughout the range of engine start recovery regimes and possible engine malfunctions abnormalities.

The present invention supports crew awareness and intervention non intervention response related decision making by providing information indications that explicitly or implicitly help the crew readily easily and quickly determine at a glance engine start recovery progress the engine automation mode and the operational state e.g. subidle or running of an aircraft engine. Optionally information indications can be provided that also help the crew readily easily and quickly determine at a glance how long engine start recovery will likely take. The invention also has application in situations wherein the aircraft engine speed abnormally decreases toward a target idle running speed or for some other abnormal condition such as disagreement between commanded and indicated thrust.

One aspect of the invention is a method for communicating aircraft engine information to a pilot comprising the steps of generating indicators that indicate the current core speed of an operating aircraft engine and a target idle running speed wherein the indicators are visual or aural.

Another aspect of the invention is a method for communicating aircraft engine information to a pilot comprising the following steps a calculating the current core speed and speed rate of change of an operating aircraft engine b generating a first indicator that indicates the calculated current core speed while the aircraft engine is operating and c generating a second indicator at least whenever the operational state of the aircraft engine is a subidle condition the second indicator indicating a target idle running speed of the aircraft engine wherein the first and second indicators are visual or aural.

A further aspect of the invention is a system for indicating aircraft engine information onboard an aircraft comprising an indicator device that can be controlled electronically to generate indicators and a processor programmed to control the indicator device to generate indicators indicating the current core speed of an operating aircraft engine and a target idle running speed in response to receipt of a signal indicating that a predetermined operating condition is present.

Yet another aspect of the invention is a system for indicating aircraft information onboard an aircraft comprising an indicator device that can be controlled electronically to generate indicators and a processor programmed to control the indicator device to generate an indicator indicating whether the core speed of an operating aircraft engine is accelerating or decelerating whenever the operational state of the aircraft engine is a subidle condition or whenever the aircraft engine speed is abnormally decreasing towards a subidle condition.

Reference will now be made to the drawings in which similar elements in different drawings bear the same reference numerals.

The present disclosure describes methods and systems for displaying aircraft engine characteristics. Many specific details of certain embodiments of the invention are set forth in the following description and in to provide a thorough understanding of these embodiments. One skilled in the art however will understand that the present invention may have additional embodiments and that the invention may be practiced without several of the details described below.

In one embodiment the computer can be generally similar to existing avionics computers but can be programmed and or configured to carry out the foregoing processes. For example the computer can include an engine controller computer EEC or FADEC and or an aircraft display computer. In any of these embodiments one or more of the input output devices can be configured to receive the engine operating parameter signals directly from the aircraft engines and or from intermediate computers or processors. One or more of the input output devices can be configured to receive the crew input signals and can accordingly include a keypad mouse pad touch screen switches control levers or other such device. The crew input signals can be used to tailor certain aspects of the manner in which information is presented on the display unit or to obtain additional information without affecting the content of the information. One or more of the input output devices can also be configured to access a computer readable medium such as a CD diskette or USB memory device . Directions for carrying out processes in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention can be transferred from or stored on such media and or stored in the memory . The display unit on which the information is presented can include a CRT screen an LCD screen or any other device that is configured to visually present engine related information to the crew.

Typically the core speed i.e. Non General Electric GE and Pratt Whitney PW engines and Non Rolls Royce RR engines is a normalized value. The target idle running speed is the minimum core speed at which the operational state of the engine is not a subidle condition. The target idle running speed varies from engine to engine and also varies as a function of the operating conditions for a particular engine aircraft. More specifically the value of the target idle running speed parameter varies as a function of altitude pressure temperature and other factors such as engine make and model.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present invention the current core speed and the target idle running speed of an operating aircraft engine are calculated by a local processor not shown in and sent to the processor via the input output devices . Whenever the current core speed of the aircraft engine is less than its target idle running speed the processor causes the display unit to display symbols indicating that condition. In other embodiments engine automation and state information indication may be displayed at times when the current core speed of the aircraft engine is at or above its target idle running speed.

In a conventional manner while the aircraft engine is operating the processor controls the display unit to display a first indicator representing the calculated current core speed. In the event that the operational mode of the aircraft engine is a subidle condition the processor also controls the display unit to display a second indicator representing the target idle running speed of the aircraft engine. In the case where the indicators are graphical symbols the first and second indicators are placed in a spatial relationship indicating that the current core speed of the aircraft engine is less than its target idle running speed. In the case where the indicators are numerical symbols the numerical value of the first indicator indicating the current core speed of the aircraft engine will be less than the numerical value of the second indicator indicating the target idle running speed. Preferably the first and the second indicators should be collocated and suitably differentiated actual from target. Optionally the second indicator is not displayed when the current core speed is greater than the target idle running speed except when certain abnormal conditions are present such as the aircraft engine speed abnormally decreasing toward the target idle running speed or such as when there is disagreement between the commanded and indicated thrust.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention both graphical and alphanumeric engine start recovery information is integrated with the display of core engine speed Non GE and PW engines and Non RR engines . Target idle running speed is displayed graphically on a round dial scale and displayed numerically above the existing numeric core speed display. Optionally a dynamic arrow with length based on core speed acceleration or deceleration displays predicted core speed in some period of time e.g. 15 or 30 seconds . In addition engine state and engine start recovery automation mode information may be displayed. In other embodiments graphical and alphanumeric engine start recovery information may integrated with other engine parameters or implemented separately.

In the embodiment shown in a tic mark on a round dial scale provides a graphical indication of the target idle running speed. This numeric value is located in the context of current and overall graphical indication of core engine speed. The current core speed is indicated by graphical indicator in . In one implementation the tic mark is green in color. Note that different indication colors e.g. white may be used to ensure consistent contextual coding to ensure salience to correlate with other indications annunciations or for other purposes. Functionality is produced by use of sensed or inferred and calculated or predefined target idle running speed.

The display seen in also has a numeric indication that corresponds to the graphical indication of the target idle running speed. This numeric value is collocated above the numeric indication of current core speed. Again different indication colors e.g. white may be used to ensure consistent contextual coding to ensure salience to correlate with other indications annunciations or for other purposes. Also again functionality is produced by use of sensed or inferred and calculated or predefined target idle running speed.

The display seen in also has a dynamically increasing decreasing white arrow that is generally parallel to a tangent to the round dial scale at the location where the current core speed graphical indicator intersects the round dial scale. The direction of the arrow indicates whether the core speed is accelerating or decelerating. Arrow length is based on the magnitude of the core speed acceleration or deceleration and displays predicted core speed at some future time e.g. 3 5 10 15 or 30 seconds . Again different indication colors e.g. green may be used to ensure consistent contextual coding to ensure salience to correlate with other indications annunciations or for other purposes. Functionality is produced by use of sensed or inferred and calculated engine acceleration deceleration utilized by a first order filter and gain algorithm. In an alternative embodiment the arrow may be curved and concentric with the round dial.

The arrow indicates predicted N2 in some predetermined interval e.g. 10 seconds based on engine acceleration or deceleration. In one possible implementation a minimum fixed length arrow approximately 5 N2 in length is displayed for some minimum level of acceleration e.g. somewhere between 0.05 to 5 N2 sec. The arrow is removed when acceleration decreases to zero or near zero. The arrow is displayed for deceleration greater than approximately 0.5 N2 sec. The arrow is removed when deceleration is 

As is well known each modern aircraft engine is controlled by an electronic engine control EEC system. Autostart is one function within the EEC that controls starting the engine. To start the engine the crew typically selects a start switch to on or start waits for the engine to motor spin speed up to some minimum speed then selects the a fuel control switch to on or run to allow fuel flow to the engine. There is typically a respective start switch and a respective fuel control switch for each engine. Placing the fuel control switch on typically enables the Autostart function.

The display panel disclosed herein may also include alphanumeric engine state and engine start recovery automation mode information indications. The alphanumeric information displayed may include current automation mode s countdown timers indicating estimated time to running automation accommodation or automation induced delay. shows a field where mode information may be displayed. The color coded mode indications are intended to provide awareness of one or more of the following 1 automation mode e.g. AUTOSTART AUTORELIGHT MOTORING IGNITION etc. in white info text 2 engine start recovery process or progress e.g. 1 40 REMAINING 30 DELAY ABORTING UNABLE RESTART etc. in white info text and 3 engine state e.g. SHUTDOWN white RUNNING green ENG FAIL amber non normal condition related text . This is not intended to be a complete list. Different indication colors e.g. green white amber red etc may be used to ensure consistent contextual coding to ensure salience to correlate with other indications annunciations or for other purposes. Functionality is produced by sensed or inferred engine and automation modes and states and or by use of sensed or inferred and calculated engine acceleration deceleration utilized by a first order filter and gain algorithm. In other embodiments engine state and automation mode information indication may be graphical and or alphanumeric and may be integrated with other engine parameters or implemented separately.

The indicator SHUTDOWN indicates that the engine has been manually shutdown. The throttle quadrant fuel control switches are in cutoff position cutoff of fuel flow to engine and engine automation is typically inhibited disabled.

The indicator AUTOSTART white text indicates that the automation is in Autostart mode and working to start the engine i.e. engine start automation is active and following programming to start recover the engine including motoring the engine between start attempts. The Autostart mode is typically initiated by selecting a control panel Autostart switch on and selecting an engine start switch to on or start then selecting the fuel control switch to on or run or cycling the fuel control switch to off or cutoff and then on or run . The AUTOSTART indication is removed when the automation is no longer attempting engine start. AUTOSTART is displayed while the aircraft is on the ground during normal start and in flight if the engine fuel control switch is cycled from on run to off cutoff and back to on run. On ground the engine start automation will typically make multiple start attempts. In flight the engine start automation will typically continue to attempt restart until the crew manually commands engine shutdown.

The indicator AUTORELIGHT white text indicates that the engine has failed gone sub idle and Autorelight automation is automatically attempting to recover the engine to idle running. This indicator is replaced by the Autostart mode indication if the engine fuel control switch is cycled from on run to off cutoff and back to on run thus typically enabling the Autostart automation. The Autorelight mode is typically initiated automatically when an engine flameout is detected in flight. The AUTORELIGHT indication is typically removed when the automation is no longer attempting engine relight recovery or when AUTOSTART is initiated.

The indicator MOTORING white text indicates that the fuel flow to the engine has been automatically or manually cutoff and the engine starter is engaged turning or motoring the engine. Motoring typically occurs and is displayed on ground at the beginning of each start after motoring begins but before the fuel control is selected to run. Motoring also typically occurs after each automatic start attempt but in the current embodiments is displayed only after the third Autostart attempt or when manual motoring is commanded by the crew. Optionally the MOTORING indicator could be displayed after each automatic start attempt or whenever motoring is occurring.

The indicator RUNNING green text is temporarily displayed for some predetermined time e.g. 10 seconds after idle running speed is reached.

In the current embodiment the proposed engine start recovery indications appear only when an engine is sub idle below idle running speed . An engine goes sub idle when the engine is shutdown intentionally turned off or has failed for some reason e.g. damage surge stall fuel exhaustion etc . When the engine failure occurs at idle e.g. during descent or approach the indications help identify the condition and the affected engine. During normal start or recovery restart from failure the indications aid the crew in determining if engine start recovery is progressing and in estimating how long engine start recovery will take. The indications clear once the engine is running after starting or recovering from failure . In other embodiments engine automation and state information indication may be displayed at times when the current core speed of the aircraft engine is at or above its target idle running speed.

In accordance with the disclosed embodiments of the invention the target idle running speed of an aircraft engine can be graphically and or numerically displayed. Alternatively or additionally predicted engine speed is displayed. Optionally start recovery engine state and automation mode information is also provided. The aforementioned information is designed to decrease crew monitoring detection and interpretation tasks workload and minimize the potential for inappropriate or undesirable crew intervention automation interruption engine shutdown etc . Timely and proper crew action or inaction with respect to engine start recovery and restart promotes safe and efficient airplane operations. The present invention has the potential to save airline time and money by reducing airplane startup ramp related time through increased crew awareness predictability of engine state reducing the potential for inadvertent unnecessary engine shutdown of a good unaffected engine or a slowly recovering engine and reducing collateral impacts unscheduled engine inspections maintenance negative impacts on extended range twin engine operations ETOPS operation qualification etc .

The invention improves system state and automation mode awareness has potential for increased operational efficiency and in flight shut down rate reduction. As disclosed above the target idle running speed may be displayed when the current core speed of an operating aircraft is less than the target idle running speed. In addition or in the alternative the target idle running speed may be displayed when the current core speed of an operating aircraft is decreasing abnormally towards the target idle running speed or for some other abnormal condition such as disagreement between the commanded and indicated thrust.

In the alternative or in addition to visual indicators aural indicators either tone or voice may be given to the pilot by the system. Aural messages can be generated using either a tone generator or a voice simulator. For example a voice message could be automatically generated that annunciates engine start recovery information such as target idle running speed and current core speed or the direction and magnitude of core speed acceleration deceleration. Engine state and automation mode information can also be annunciated.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for members thereof without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope or spirit thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best or preferred mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

In the absence of explicit language in any method claim setting forth the order in which certain steps should be performed the method claims should not be construed to require that steps be performed in the order in which they are recited.

