---

title: Contextual syndication platform
abstract: Techniques are disclosed for automatically annotating a document to offer, to a viewer, a choice of operations that a user can take relative to identified entities to which the document refers, where the choice of operations offered in relation to each such entity is appropriate to and based on the types of that entity. In one embodiment of the invention, for each “interesting” entity within a document, a mechanism automatically determines one or more types for that entity. The mechanism automatically annotates the document so that an application will present entity-type-specific data (including operation choices) that is generated by modules that are mapped to the types of the entities within the document. The annotations comprise metadata that indicates types of each “interesting” entity. The entity-type-specific data may be presented along with the rest of the document. A user need not navigate to a different document prior to viewing the data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07962465&OS=07962465&RS=07962465
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 07962465
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061019
---
The present application is related to the following U.S. patent applications each of which is incorporated by reference herein 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 903 283 filed Jul. 29 2004 titled SEARCH SYSTEMS AND METHODS USING IN LINE CONTEXTUAL QUERIES 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 033 417 filed Jan. 10 2005 titled USER INTERFACES FOR SEARCH SYSTEMS USING IN LINE CONTEXTUAL QUERIES 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 033 100 filed Jan. 10 2005 titled SEARCH SYSTEMS AND METHODS USING ENHANCED CONTEXTUAL QUERIES 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 033 101 filed Jan. 10 2005 titled USER INTERFACE TOOL FOR TEXT SELECTION 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 129 096 filed May 12 2005 titled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTEXTUAL TRANSACTION PROPOSALS 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 183 114 filed Jul. 14 2005 titled User ENTERTAINMENT AND ENGAGEMENT ENHANCEMENTS TO SEARCH SYSTEM 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 231 632 filed Sep. 20 2005 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PRESENTING INFORMATION BASED ON PUBLISHER SELECTED LABELS 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 232 270 filed Sep. 20 2005 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PRESENTING ADVERTISING CONTENT BASED ON PUBLISHER SELECTED LABELS 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 239 708 filed Sep. 29 2005 titled TAGGING OFFLINE CONTENT WITH CONTEXT SENSITIVE SEARCH ENABLING KEYWORDS 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 239 729 filed Sep. 29 2005 titled AUTOMATICALLY DETERMINING TOPICAL REGIONS IN A DOCUMENT 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 248 738 filed Oct. 11 2005 titled ENABLING CONTEXTUALLY PLACED ADS IN PRINT MEDIA and

The present invention relates to document annotation and enhancement and more specifically to a technique for automatically annotating and enhancing a document to offer to a viewer of the document a choice of operations that a user can take relative to identified entities to which the document refers where the choice of operations offered in relation to each such entity is appropriate to and based on the types of that entity.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 903 283 filed on Jul. 29 2004 discloses techniques for performing context sensitive searches. According to one such technique a source web page may be enhanced with user interface elements that when activated cause a search engine to provide search results that are directed to a particular topic to which at least a portion of the source web page pertains. For example such user interface elements may be Y Q elements which now appear in many web pages all over the Internet. For additional information on Y Q elements the reader is encouraged to submit Y Q as a query term to a search engine.

Because they may be strategically positioned in a web page in close proximity to the content about which the user would want to search for information the user interface elements described above provide a convenient mechanism for context sensitive searching. A user can presume that if he initiates a search using a user interface element that is positioned in close proximity to a particular paragraph of text then the search results obtained for the search will be constrained based on the topics to which the paragraph pertains.

Beneficially these user interface elements allow a user to search for resources that are related to a topic of interest within a web page that the user is currently viewing at the time in which the user s interest in that topic is piqued. The user can locate related resources without redirecting his browser to a search engine portal page and sometimes without even formulating or typing any search query terms. Thus these user interface elements enable the delivery of relevant information to a user at the point of the user s inspiration or curiosity.

If the user has the right kind of toolbar plug in installed on his computer and associated with his Internet browser application e.g. Mozilla Firefox then the user may right click on a word displayed within a web page in order to view a pop up interface that provides the user with several options. For example if the user right clicks on a link in the page then the user s Internet browser application may present to the user a pop up interface that gives the user options for e mailing the link to a user specified e mail address sending the link to a user specified Instant Messenger identity adding the link to a set of bookmarks for future reference or performing a search for relevant documents using terms within the link text as query terms. These options relate to activities that are applicable to all links regardless of what those links represent.

To date when such a pop up interface is displayed the options presented in the pop up interface are the same regardless of the content of the text on which the user right clicked. The activities that the user can take relative to a link on which the user right clicked are the same regardless of the text of that link or the kind of thing that such text represents. As a result the activities that the user can take are typically limited to more general activities that are applicable to entities of all kinds. Unfortunately when the activities that can be performed relative to a link are only those that are of a generally applicable nature i.e. applicable to all links regardless of what those links represent many specific activities that the user might want to take relative to the link cannot be offered as options in the pop up interface because such specific activities might not be applicable to all links.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Documents e.g. web pages refer to entities e.g. recognized people places things etc. . Along with the rest of a document operations services activities and features that pertain to entities to which that document refers may be presented e.g. in pop up interfaces to a user who is currently viewing that document. Embodiments of the invention enable type specific operations services activities and features to be presented in conjunction with entities that are of the appropriate type. The set of operations services activities and features that are presented in conjunction with an entity that is of a particular type is customized to contain operations services activities and features that are appropriate to entities of the particular type but which might not be appropriate to entities of other types. For example a map might be presented in conjunction with a place type entity but not presented in conjunction with entities that are not of a place type. Thus different sets of operations services activities and features may be presented in conjunction with entities of different types.

Some embodiments of the invention further enable interested people and organizations to register with a syndication mechanism or platform customized mappings between customized types and customized modules that may be selected by those interested people and organizations. Some or all of the selected types may be defined by the provider of the syndication mechanism the party that registers the customized mappings and or other parties that previously defined and registered their own custom type definitions. Similarly some or all of the selected modules may be defined by the provider of the syndication mechanism the party that registers the customized mappings and or other parties that previously defined their own custom executable modules.

In one embodiment of the invention for each entity within a document e.g. a web page or e mail message the syndication mechanism automatically determines one or more types for that entity. The syndication mechanism automatically annotates the document so that an Internet browser or other application will present in response to occurrences of specified events relative to entities to which the annotated document refers entity type specific data that is generated by the modules that are mapped to the types of the entities relative to which the specified events occurred. The annotations in the document comprise metadata that indicates for each entity one or more types of that entity. The data may be presented along with the rest of the document e.g. in a pop up interface so that a user does not need to navigate to a different document prior to viewing the data.

According to one embodiment of the invention a syndication mechanism receives a document e.g. a web page as input. The syndication mechanism automatically identifies interesting entities e.g. people places things etc. to which the document refers. Entities may be automatically identified using techniques described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 903 283 for example. The syndication mechanism may rank these entities in order of importance. Using techniques described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 270 917 for example the syndication mechanism may disambiguate i.e. determine the correct meaning of given the contextual use of entities that could have any of several meanings when not considered in context. The syndication mechanism annotates the entities in the document according to techniques described below. The syndication mechanism outputs an annotated document.

A content provider might have content which he considers to be valuable. For example a content provider that operates a web site might have content that comprises his reviews of computer products. The content provider might want links to his content to be presented in conjunction with all entities that are classified as electronics type entities because the content provider might believe that users who are interested in electronics would probably also be interested in the content provider s reviews of computer products.

Therefore the content provider might register with the syndication mechanism in order to cause the syndication mechanism to make the content provider s content available to users who view documents e.g. web pages that refer to entities that are classified as electronics type entities. More specifically the content provider might register with the syndication mechanism in order to cause the syndication mechanism to annotate documents with entity type expressing metadata so that the pop up interfaces that users Internet browsers and or other applications display when those users right click on or hover over etc. entities that are classified as electronics include links to the content provider s content.

After the content provider has registered with the syndication mechanism the syndication mechanism might automatically detect that a particular document e.g. a web page or e mail message refers to a particular entity that is a digital camera. Due to the particular entity being a digital camera the syndication mechanism might classify this entity as being an electronics type of entity. In response to determining that the particular entity is an electronics type of entity the syndication mechanism may annotate the particular document so that the particular document contains metadata that indicates that at least one of the particular entity s types is electronics. This presence of this annotation causes the pop up interfaces that users Internet browsers and or other applications display when those users right click on or hover over etc. the particular entity to include links to the content provider s content.

In addition to links to content providers related content pop up interfaces may contain user selectable options that correspond to activities or operations that can be performed relative to the entities for which those pop up interfaces are displayed. In one embodiment of the invention the syndication mechanism annotates a document so that the user selectable options that such pop up interfaces contain are customized based on the types of the entities for which those pop up interfaces are displayed.

For example in response to determining that a particular entity is a place type entity the syndication mechanism may annotate the particular entity containing document so that the pop up interface that is displayed for the entity contains an option which when selected causes an Internet browser to request and display a page that contains a map of the area surrounding the place represented by the particular entity. Alternatively in response to making such determination the syndication mechanism may annotate the particular entity containing document so that the pop up interface that is displayed for the particular entity actually contains a map of the area surrounding the place represented by the particular entity. The syndication mechanism may annotate documents so that such place specific options and features are only included within pop up interfaces that are displayed for place type entities. Such place specific options and features would not make sense if displayed in a pop up interface for an entity that is not a place.

For another example in response to determining that a particular entity is an e mail address type entity the syndication mechanism may annotate the particular entity containing document so that the pop up interface that is displayed for the entity contains an option which when selected causes an e mail client application to launch and add to a list of e mail addresses the e mail address that the particular entity represents. The syndication mechanism may annotate documents so that such e mail address specific options and features are only included within pop up interfaces that are displayed for e mail address type entities. Such e mail address specific options and features would not make sense if displayed in a pop up interface for an entity that is not an e mail address.

For another example in response to determining that a particular entity is a movie type entity the syndication mechanism may annotate the particular entity containing document so that the pop up interface that is displayed for the entity contains a short audiovisual clip of a preview of the movie that the particular entity represents. The syndication mechanism may annotate documents so that such movie specific options and features are only included within pop up interfaces that are displayed for movie type entities. Such e mail address specific options and features would not make sense if displayed in a pop up interface for an entity that is not a movie.

In one embodiment of the invention the syndication mechanism described above is implemented as a web service that receives a web page or other document as input from a publisher. The web service automatically identifies entities in the web page and annotates the web page with metadata that indicates for each of those entities one or more identified types of those entities. In one embodiment of the invention the providers of the web service provide a JavaScript library to the publisher. The publisher puts the JavaScript library into his web page template. The publisher flows the annotated web page into his web page template. The JavaScript library consumes the entity type expressing annotations in the annotated web page.

The JavaScript library is responsible for visually highlighting identified entities within the web page. The JavaScript library is also responsible for displaying to a user pop up interfaces or overlays that present operations services activities and or features that are mapped to the types of the entities in the web page. The operations services activities and or features that are to be presented in a particular pop up interface for a particular entity are determined based on the type s of the particular entity as expressed in the annotations for the particular entity.

In one embodiment of the invention each entity may have one or more entity types. For example an entity might be of type person place street address e mail address telephone number uniform resource locator etc. Entities that have a general type such as person might also have more specific types such as musician actor celebrity politician etc.

In one embodiment of the invention the set of entity types is arranged in a taxonomy or hierarchy of entity types in which some types are sub types of other types. For example the actor and celebrity entity types might be sub types of the person entity type. For another example the city entity type might be a sub type of the place entity type. In such an embodiment of the invention if an entity has an entity type that is a sub type of another entity type then that entity also has that other entity type. Thus in one embodiment of the invention all entities that have the actor type also have the person type but entities that have the person type do not necessarily have the actor type or any other type.

In one embodiment of the invention several different entity type hierarchies may be registered with the same syndication mechanism. It is possible that the designers of these different hierarchies might not be familiar with the other type hierarchies that are already registered with the syndication mechanism as a result one type hierarchy designer might give one of his types the same name that was given to a type in a type hierarchy registered by another type hierarchy designer. In order to avoid confusion and type name collisions in one embodiment of the invention each separate type hierarchy is associated with a unique namespace identifier. This namespace identifier may precede and qualify the type s of the entities as represented in annotation metadata. For example in the metadata added to a document through the annotation process described above one of a particular entity s types might be represented as where shortcuts is the namespace identifier for the type hierarchy that includes the person and actor types. Other type hierarchies that include person and actor types may be distinguished by different namespace identifiers.

In one embodiment of the invention one or more dictionaries are registered with the syndication mechanism. Each dictionary comprises one or more mappings between terms and types in a specified type hierarchy. For example in one dictionary the term Tom Cruise might be mapped to and . For another example the term Hollywood CA. might be mapped to . Some dictionaries may be provided as built in aspects of the syndication mechanism. Other dictionaries may be received from content providers such as web publishers who register their own customized dictionaries with the syndication mechanism. For example a publisher of content on the Internet might register with the syndication mechanism a dictionary that maps each interesting in the publisher s opinion term in his published content to one or more entity types from one or more entity type hierarchies potentially including the publisher s own customized entity type hierarchy and or the customized entity type hierarchies of other publishers .

A content provider e.g. a publisher may select from among multiple currently registered dictionaries the content provider s own or others a specified set of dictionaries that the content provider would like the syndication mechanism to use to identify interesting entities in the content provider s documents. Different content providers may select different sets of dictionaries. In one embodiment of the invention the syndication mechanism uses a default set of dictionaries to identify interesting terms in the content provider s document unless the content provider expressly indicates to the syndication mechanism that one or more of these dictionaries should not be used and or that one or more additional dictionaries not in the default set also should be used.

In one embodiment of the invention while the syndication mechanism is annotating a content provider s document the syndication mechanism attempts to locate a term from that document within the set of registered dictionaries that the content provider specified. For each such dictionary in which the syndication mechanism locates the term the syndication mechanism places within the document metadata that identifies the entity type that is mapped to that term in that dictionary. The syndication mechanism might locate the term in multiple separate dictionaries and place within the document metadata that identifies different entity types that are mapped to those terms within the separate dictionaries. The syndication mechanism may perform this process for each term within the document where each term may comprise one or more words. Thus in one embodiment of the invention the syndication mechanism uses the information contained in the registered dictionaries potentially in combination with other information in order to identify and classify the interesting entity correspondent terms within a document.

In addition to information contained within registered dictionaries the syndication mechanism may use other sources and techniques in order to identify interesting entities within a document. For example the syndication mechanism may use rule based processes to identify interesting entities automatically. For another example the syndication mechanism may use machine learning based techniques to identify interesting entities automatically.

In one embodiment of the invention each entity type is mapped to one or more modules. Modules may be implemented as executable computer programs and or as web pages that contain browser executable script for example. Additionally or alternatively modules may be implemented as metadata that an interpreting program uses to provide functionality that is specified by the metadata.

A particular entity type may be mapped to more than one module and a particular module may be mapped to more than one entity type. For example two or more different entity types might each be mapped to a search module. The search module might have functionality that causes a pop up interface to display among other features one or more Internet search results that a search engine selected using the entity s text as search query terms. As a result of such mappings when a pop up interface is displayed for a particular entity that has at least one type that is mapped to the search module that pop up interface will contain at least the search results produced by the search module. Pop up interfaces that are displayed for entities that do not have any types that are mapped to the search module will lack the search results that would have been produced by the search module.

Different modules may offer different functionality. For example while a search module might cause a pop up interface to contain search results a map module which might be mapped only to certain entity types such as place and other entity types that are representative of a location might cause a pop up interface to contain a map that the map module dynamically generated. For another example a shopping module which might be mapped only to certain entity types such as product and other entity types that are representative of things that can be purchased might cause a pop up interface to contain links which when selected cause corresponding items to be added to an on line shopping cart for an Internet site that sells such items. For another example a photo module which might be mapped to person animal and edifice entity types for example might cause a pop up interface to contain a digitized image e.g. an image of the specific person animal or edifice that the corresponding entity represents .

As is discussed above a content provider may register customized modules with the syndication mechanism. The modules may be of the content provider s own design. In one embodiment of the invention the syndication mechanism receives from a content provider both a module or several modules and a set of specified mappings between that module or modules and one or more entity types. For example a content provider might register with the syndication mechanism a product review module that causes reviews of computer products to be downloaded automatically from a specified server and included within a pop up interface. If the content provider additionally registered a mapping between the product review module and an electronics entity type then the pop up interfaces presented for all entities that had the electronics entity type would include the reviews of the computer products downloaded form the specified server.

A content provider also may register mappings that involve built in modules provided by the syndication mechanism and or mappings that involve customized modules that were registered with the syndication mechanism by other content providers.

In one embodiment of the invention mapping a module to an entity type that is a sub type of another entity type does not as a result map that module to that other entity type. For example if the actor type was a sub type of the person type then mapping a particular module to the actor type would not also consequently map the particular module to the person type. Following this example further a pop up interface generated for an entity that was of the actor type would include operations services activities and or features resulting from the functionality of the particular module but a pop up interface generated for an entity that was of the person but not the actor type would not necessarily include any operations services activities and or features resulting from the functionality of the particular module.

In one embodiment of the invention a publisher or other content provider registers his customized modules dictionaries and or customized entity type hierarchies with the syndication mechanism by uploading these modules dictionaries and or entity type hierarchies to the syndication mechanism via the Internet. For example the syndication mechanism may provide a web based interface through which a content provider can upload such data. The operator of the syndication mechanism may charge the content provider a specified fee in exchange for the registration of the modules dictionaries and or entity type hierarchies.

As is discussed above the metadata that is inserted into a copy of a document in the process of annotating the document indicates one or more entity types for the entity to which that metadata pertains. In one embodiment of the invention additional information besides the entity types of an entity may be placed into the metadata for that entity. The kind of additional information that is placed into the metadata for the entity may be influenced by although not necessarily exclusive to that entity s type.

For one example in one embodiment of the invention if an entity s type is determined to be person then along with information that indicates that the entity s type is person the metadata for that entity also indicates the year in which the person represented by the entity was born if such information is known or available. For another example in one embodiment of the invention if an entity s type is determined to be city then along with information that indicates that the entity s type is city the metadata for that entity also indicates a the latitude of the city that the entity represents b the longitude of the city that the entity represents and c the area of the city that the entity represents if such information is known or available. This additional information may be used by the modules that are mapped to the city entity type. For example such a module might use this information to dynamically generate a map of the city and the surrounding area for display within a pop up interface.

Additionally or alternatively at least some of the modules that are selected to present operations services activities and or features for a particular entity may be selected based on such entity type influenced additional information that is present in the metadata for that particular entity. For example if the latitude and longitude indicated within an entity s metadata indicate that the location represented by the entity is within North America then a special North America module might be selected to present within a pop up interface for the entity operations services activities and features that are especially appropriate for locations within North America regardless of the entity s type.

For another example if a top level domain indicated within an entity s metadata indicates that a web site represented by the entity is a site at Yahoo then a special Yahoo module might be selected to present within a pop up interface for the entity operations services activities and features that are especially appropriate for Yahoo web sites regardless of the entity s type.

In one embodiment of the invention two or more different entity types even types that are unrelated to each other in any entity type hierarchy may have the same fields of additional information placed in the metadata for entities of each of those types. Therefore although an entity s type may influence which fields of additional information if any are included in the metadata for that entity there is not necessarily a one to one correspondence between an entity s type and the additional information beyond the entity s type that is included in the metadata for that entity.

As is discussed above in one embodiment of the invention the entity type specific operations services activities and features that are displayed for a particular entity are presented within a pop up interface that at least temporarily overlays a portion of the currently displayed document in response to a user s performance of a specified action relative to the particular entity e.g. when the user right clicks on the entity s text or hovers the mouse pointer over the entity s text for a specified period of time . However in an alternative embodiment of the invention these entity type specific operations services activities and features may be displayed within a document even without the performance of any user action relative to any entity.

For example prior to the time that a document is displayed by an Internet browser or other application entity type specific operations services activities and or features may be placed within a header footer or sidebar portion of the document. For example if one of the entities to which the document refers has at least a place type then the header footer or sidebar portion of the document may contain a dynamically generated thumbnail map that shows an area that surrounds the place that the entity represents. For another example if one of the entities to which the document refers has at least an e mail address type then the header footer or sidebar portion of the document may contain a user selectable option which when selected causes the performance of an operation that adds to an e mail address list of the user s e mail application an e mail address that the entity represents. This header footer or sidebar portion may be displayed along with the document s original contents. Such a header footer or sidebar portion may contain entity type specific operations services activities and or features for multiple separate entities that have been identified within the document.

Syndication mechanism comprises a set of registered entity recognizers A N an entity detection component and an entity disambiguation component . In one embodiment of the invention the set of registered entity recognizers A N includes one or more sets of registered dictionaries each specifying one or more term to entity type mappings that were received from one or more content providers e.g. publishers of documents such as document .

In one embodiment of the invention entity detection component automatically identifies within document entities that are specified within the set of registered entity recognizers A N. Each entity comprises one or more terms. For each such identified entity in document entity disambiguation component determines a correct context i.e. meaning of that entity some sets of terms might have more than one meaning. Entity disambiguation component may determine the correct context of an entity using techniques disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 270 917 for example. An entity s identity may be expressly qualified with that entity s context.

Once a correct context has been determined for each identified entity syndication mechanism creates an annotated copy of document by inserting into the copy metadata that indicates for each identified entity one or more entity types of that entity. As is discussed above the entity types of each entity may be automatically determined based on registered mappings between entities and entity types in one embodiment of the invention these mappings are specified within entity recognizers A N.

The metadata inserted into the copy of document may take the form of one or more tags each of which identifies an entity within document and one or more entity types of that entity. Syndication mechanism outputs the copy including the tags as annotated document . As is described above the metadata within annotated document may be used by other mechanisms to generate pop up interfaces that present operations services activities and or features that are appropriate for the entity types specified within the metadata. The operations services activities and or features presented may be selected based on a specified set of entity type to module mappings as is discussed above.

In block the syndication mechanism receives a document e.g. from the publisher . In block the syndication mechanism annotates the document based at least in part on the dictionary and the set of entity to entity type mappings thereby producing an annotated document that specifies for each interesting entity in the document one or more entity types of that entity. In block the syndication mechanism provides the annotated document to the publisher.

In block the syndication mechanism generates a JavaScript library based at least in part on the set of modules and the set of entity type to module mappings. In block the syndication mechanism provides the JavaScript library to the publisher. In block the publisher places the JavaScript library into a web page template. In block the publisher flows the annotated document into the web page template which based at least in part on the modules and the entity type to module mappings produces a document that contains JavaScript which when interpreted by an Internet browser application will cause the Internet browser application to present entity type appropriate selections of options services and or features for each interesting entity in the document in response to occurrences of specified events relative to those entities.

As is discussed above in one embodiment of the invention a user s actions relative to an entity identified within a document e.g. right clicking on the entity s text or hovering a mouse pointer over the entity s text cause an application such as an Internet browser to display a pop up interface that presents features and or selectable options that are appropriate for the specific type s of that entity. In one embodiment of the invention the pop up interface includes for entities of at least some specified types a search interface that includes a field into which a user can input one or more search query terms.

In one embodiment of the invention in response to such search query terms being received as input into such a search interface one or more entities represented by those query terms are automatically identified using techniques similar to those described above for identifying interesting entities within a document. After the interesting entities within the query terms have been identified one or more entity types of each of those entities are automatically identified using the techniques described above for determining entities types. Then based on mappings between modules and the entities types the display of the pop up interface is responsively enhanced to include additional features and or options that are appropriate for the types of the entities identified within the query terms.

In a pop up interface each module that is mapped to at least one of the identified entities types may correspond to a separate tab shown in a tab bar that may be presented across the top of the pop up interface. For example a tab bar might include side by side tabs for a search module a map module and a movie module. Clicking on the tab for the search module might cause one or more search results produced based on the query terms to be displayed in the pop up interface. Clicking on the tab for the map module might cause a map of an area surrounding a location represented by an entity in the query terms to be displayed in the pop up interface. Clicking on the tab for the movie module might cause an audiovisual clip of a preview of a movie represented by an entity in the query terms to be displayed in the pop up interface.

Thus using a multi tabbed pop up interface a user might navigate back and forth between different categories of entity type specific features and options. While the user is doing this the original document or at least a portion thereof may remain visible to the user.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

The invention is related to the use of computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another machine readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The term machine readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operate in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using computer system various machine readable media are involved for example in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Common forms of machine readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punchcards papertape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of machine readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. Thus the sole and exclusive indicator of what is the invention and is intended by the applicants to be the invention is the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction. Any definitions expressly set forth herein for terms contained in such claims shall govern the meaning of such terms as used in the claims. Hence no limitation element property feature advantage or attribute that is not expressly recited in a claim should limit the scope of such claim in any way. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

