---

title: Methods and apparatus for monitoring configurable performance levels in a wireless device
abstract: Apparatus and methods may include a performance module operable to monitor and generate performance statistics on a wireless device based on a received monitoring configuration. In some aspects, the wireless device may forward the performance statistics to another device upon meeting predetermined threshold parameters. The performance statistics may be utilized to generate a performance report viewable by an authorized user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08135395&OS=08135395&RS=08135395
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08135395
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060313
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 663 515 entitled Methods and Apparatus for Monitoring Configurable Performance Levels in a Wireless Device filed Mar. 18 2005 and to Provisional Application No. 60 664 669 entitled Methods and Apparatus for Displaying Long Term Performance Parameters for a Wireless Device filed Mar. 22 2005 both assigned to the assignee hereof and both hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present application for patent is related to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 374 924 entitled Apparatus and Methods for Providing Performance Statistics on a Wireless Communication Device filed concurrently herewith and expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The described embodiments generally relate to wireless communication devices and computer networks. More particularly the described embodiments relate to the collecting performance statistics on a wireless device.

Wireless networking connects one or more wireless devices to other computer devices without a direct electrical connection such as a copper wire or optical cable. Wireless devices communicate data typically in the form of packets across a wireless or partially wireless computer network and open a data or communication channel on the network such that the device can send and receive data packets. The wireless devices often have wireless device resources such as programs and hardware components which individually and cooperatively operate to use and generate data in accordance to their design and specific protocol or configuration such as using open communication connections to transmit and receive data on the network.

Wireless devices are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers. These smart wireless devices such as cellular telephones have application programming interfaces APIs installed onto their local computer platform that allow software developers to create software applications that operate on the cellular telephone. The API sits between the wireless device system software and the software application making the cellular telephone functionality available to the application without requiring the software developer to have the specific cellular telephone system source code.

In the competitive world of cellular telephone carrier networks proactive support of high revenue producing customers is desired in order to maintain and increase the profitability of the network carrier. Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide apparatus and methods for monitoring predetermined performance levels in a wireless device.

The described embodiments comprise apparatus methods computer readable media and processors operable to monitor wireless device performance statistics. Upon meeting a configurable threshold the corresponding performance data may be automatically forwarded to another device such as a remote server that may alert authorized personnel at a customer support facility so they may take appropriate action to resolve any device related and or network related issues corresponding to the performance data. Furthermore based upon a predetermined reporting parameter performance statistics from the wireless device may be uploaded to a predetermined device such as the remote server and the statistics may then be utilized to generate a summary report of performance.

In one aspect a method of monitoring performance of a wireless device on a wireless network may comprise obtaining on a wireless device a monitoring configuration comprising a performance parameter and a threshold setting the performance parameter associated with a performance statistic to be monitored the threshold setting comprises a limit corresponding to the performance statistic determining the performance statistic for the wireless device based upon the monitored performance parameter comparing the determined performance statistic to the corresponding threshold setting and generating a notification if the determined performance statistic meets the threshold setting.

In a related aspect a machine readable medium may comprise instructions which when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform the above stated operations. In another related aspect at least one processor may be configured to perform the above stated operations.

In a further aspect a wireless device may comprise means for obtaining a monitoring configuration comprising a performance parameter and a threshold setting the performance parameter associated with a performance statistic to be monitored the threshold setting comprises a limit corresponding to the performance statistic means for determining the performance statistic for the wireless device based upon the monitored performance parameter means for comparing the determined performance statistic to the corresponding threshold setting and means for generating a notification if the performance statistic meets the threshold setting.

In another aspect a wireless device may comprise a memory and a performance module resident in the memory. The performance module may include a monitoring configuration comprising a performance parameter and a predetermined threshold setting the performance parameter associated with a performance statistic to be monitored the predetermined threshold setting comprises a limit corresponding to the performance statistic monitoring logic operable to determine the performance statistic based upon the monitoring configuration and reporting logic operable to generate a notification message when the performance statistic meets the predetermined threshold setting.

In yet another aspect a method of monitoring performance of a wireless device may comprise generating a monitoring configuration executable to initiate monitoring calculating and reporting of at least one performance statistic on a wireless device the monitoring configuration identifying a performance parameter forwarding the monitoring configuration for receipt by the wireless device receiving a calculated performance statistic from the wireless device based on the monitoring configuration and generating a performance report based on the received performance statistic.

In a related aspect a machine readable medium may comprise instructions which when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform the above stated operations. In another related aspect at least one processor may be configured to perform the above stated operations.

In a further aspect an apparatus may comprise means for generating a monitoring configuration executable to initiate monitoring calculating and reporting of at least one performance statistic on a wireless device the monitoring configuration identifying a performance parameter means for forwarding the monitoring configuration for receipt by the wireless device means for receiving a calculated performance statistic from the wireless device based on the monitoring configuration and means for generating a performance report based on the received performance statistic.

In still another aspect an apparatus for managing the monitoring of wireless device performance comprises a configuration generator operable to generate and transmit a monitoring configuration for receipt by a wireless device the monitoring configuration identifying a performance parameter to monitor an information repository operable to receive and store wireless device performance statistics the wireless device performance statistics comprising statistics associated with the performance parameter collected by the wireless device based on the monitoring configuration and a performance manager control module comprising a report generator operable to generate a performance report based on the wireless device performance statistics.

System is operable to monitor predetermined performance data as directed by a monitoring configuration generated by a performance manager server . The system is further operable to notify such as with an exception report a predetermined party such as a customer service representative when predetermined performance thresholds for monitored parameters are met. For example exception report may be a message indicating that a given threshold has been met and may additionally include the given performance statistic the given threshold and any other performance related data and or device status related information. Additionally system may further generate a summary report based upon analysis of the collected performance statistics . Additionally reports may be available to authorized users online and by electronic media e.g. electronic mail. These reports may be used for example to proactively support customers evaluate the commitment of a network carrier in meeting Service Level Agreements SLAs and to monitor service and connection quality of high Average Revenue Per Unit ARPU customers.

Generally system may include a wireless device comprising a performance module in communication with a performance manager server that provides device control functionality via a wireless network . Further performance manager server may be in communication with customer care workstation operated by an authorized user such as a customer service representative a marketing representative and or a field engineer. Authorized user may be provided access to the functionality of performance manager server via a wired connection or through wireless network and may further communicate with wireless device for example via customer care workstation .

Apparatus and methods of providing performance data may include monitoring performance related parameters so as to determine performance statistics. As mentioned above performance statistics may be network related and or network independent and may deal with air interface information and or non air interface information. In aspects where connection quality is monitored for example performance related parameters include but are not limited to information such as a number and or rate Number of Call Drops Number of Call Successes of call drops a number and or rate Number of Access Failures Number of Access Attempts of access failures and a number and or rate Number of Service Degradations Number of Call Successes of service degradations. In this case for example a service degradation comprises a temporary outage or a signal strength lower than a predetermined acceptable threshold occurring during an established communications connection with the wireless network i.e. during a call or while in idle mode.

Further the monitored performance parameters and or statistics may be compared to a corresponding predetermined threshold where for a given performance parameter the threshold may represent at least one threshold condition and at least one corresponding threshold value. For example the threshold condition may be an operator such as less than greater than equal to and combinations thereof. Similarly the threshold value may be a value that corresponds to a level of acceptability or a level of unacceptability. As such or example the threshold may be an upper limit a lower limit and or a range. Such predetermined thresholds are user configurable and may be downloaded from performance manager server . When the monitored parameter and or statistic meets the corresponding predetermined threshold then such a state may trigger logging of configured performance information and or generating a notification to a predetermined party such as a customer service representative who may then investigate the condition to correct the problem. Further the collected performance data may be included in the summary report which may be used to track a predetermined group of wireless devices such as similar model type device devices operating in similar geographic regions or with similar network devices and or devices having any predetermined characteristic such as devices associated with high average revenue users.

The activities performed by the herein described apparatus and methods may be performed on any form of wireless device or computer module including a wired or wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

Referring to wireless device may include computer platform operable to receive and execute software applications and configurations e.g. performance module and performance monitoring configuration and transmit both exception reports and scheduled reports across wireless network .

Wireless device may include any type of computerized wireless device such as cellular telephone personal digital assistant two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools and data relays.

Wireless device may also include input mechanism and output mechanism interconnected to computer platform . Input mechanism is operable to generate an input into wireless device and may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display and a voice recognition module. Output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker and a haptic feedback mechanism for example for relaying information to the user of the wireless device .

Computer platform may also include a memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. Additionally memory may be operable to store collected performance data.

Further computer platform may include a processing engine which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processing engine is operable to execute an application programming interface API layer that may interface with any resident programs such as performance module stored in memory . In one aspect API is a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WIRELESS BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processing engine includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware software firmware executable instructions data and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of wireless device and the operability of the wireless device on wireless network . For example processing subsystems may allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In one aspect such as in a cellular telephone processing engine may include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer layer layer main control remote procedure handset power management diagnostic digital signal processor vocoder messaging call manager BLUETOOTH system BLUETOOTH LPOS position determination position engine user interface UI sleep limited services security authentication subscriber identity module SIM and universal SIM USIM voice services graphics universal serial bus USB multimedia such as Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG standard multimedia General Packet Radio Service GPRS standard multimedia etc.

For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform . For example processing subsystems may include any subsystem components that receive data reads and data writes from API on behalf of the resident performance module . Further any performance data within the API and within any processing subsystems may be monitored and or collected by performance module and stored as collected performance data in performance log within memory .

In some aspects relating to connection quality for example in Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems parameters relating to call drops call successes access attempts access failures and service degradations may be retrieved from a combination of CDMA events and Over The Air OTA messages such as may be retrieved from the wireless device processing subsystems. For example relevant CDMA events may include but are not limited to timer values counter values and number of access probe attempts etc. Further for example relevant CDMA OTA messages may include but are not limited to reverse traffic channel messages and access channel messages.

In other system implementations such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS OTA messages may be utilized by performance module to determine the performance statistics . For example refer to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 078 235 entitled Apparatus and Methods for Determining Connection Quality of a Wireless Device on a Wireless Communications Network to Fok et al. filed Mar. 10 2005 incorporated by reference above for further details relating to the evaluation of sequences of messages for determining performance statistics.

Computer platform may further include a communications module embodied in hardware software executable instructions data and combinations thereof operable to enable communications among the various components of the wireless device and wireless network . Communications module may comprise any component port interface that may include any point of entry into and or any point of exit from wireless device as well as the components relating to the signal transmit and receive chains. As such communications module may include interface components for hardwired communications and for wireless communications. For example communications module is operable to receive monitoring configuration generated by performance manager control module as well as being operable to transmit to performance manager server the performance statistics and any other collected performance data generated and or collected by performance module .

Computer platform further includes performance module which may comprise one or any combination of hardware software firmware data and executable instructions. The performance module may be loaded into memory by various mechanisms including but not limited to being downloaded from any computer device connected to wireless network and being statically loaded on the wireless device prior to delivery to the end user such as at the time of manufacture. Computer devices from which performance module may be downloaded include performance manager server and customer care workstation .

The performance module may include one or a plurality of mechanisms for effecting the functionality described herein. In some aspects for example performance module includes statistic generator logic operable to generate one or more predetermined performance statistics . For example statistic generator logic may generate performance statistics associated with one or performance parameters identified by monitoring configuration and store the performance statistic in performance log . Performance log may be any type of persistent or non persistent memory and or data repository operable to receive and store data such as performance statistics collected performance data and or any other data. Alternately statistic generator logic may be preprogrammed to generate a predetermined plurality of performance statistics among which one or more statistics may be monitored.

In some aspects performance statistics may be calculated based upon data within API processing subsystems applications OTA messages and or combinations of OTA messages and events retrieved through processing subsystems. In some embodiments monitoring configuration need not list every parameter relating to a performance statistic . Software algorithms comprising portions of statistic generator logic may be executable to calculate performance statistics and may direct the storage of whatever intermediate parameters are required to monitor and calculate the configured performance statistics .

The performance parameter of monitoring configuration may include an identification of data for determining a predetermined performance statistic and or an identification of the statistic itself. Further it should be noted that the values of the performance data stored in performance log may be cumulative data over the lifetime of the device and or data stored over a predetermined time period and or data as of the last reset. Further any data and or statistic maintained in memory by the wireless device may be identified by the configuration logged and forwarded to remote server along with the one or more performance statistics .

Further in some aspects performance module may include monitoring logic operable to compare a predetermined performance statistics with a corresponding predetermined threshold setting which may be included in monitoring configuration . As discussed above configuration may include one or more performance parameters and corresponding threshold settings relating to at least one performance statistic to be tracked. For example monitoring logic may be able to determine if performance statistic meets the corresponding threshold setting and to take predetermined action based on whether or not the statistic meets the setting. In some aspects for example monitoring logic may cause the storage in performance log of collected performance data such as performance parameters threshold settings and any other data that may be associated with a given performance statistic such as a state of the wireless device and or any hardware and or software component of the wireless device.

In another example upon updating of performance statistics by statistic generator logic monitoring logic may compare each updated performance statistic with its associated threshold setting . In some aspects based upon that comparison and or based upon reporting parameter in configuration discussed in more detail below monitoring logic may generate an exception report identifying a performance statistic meeting its configured threshold and or any or all performance statistics thresholds and or performance related data. Furthermore in some embodiments upon meeting a threshold the uploaded exception report information may include but is not limited to wireless device identifying information the exception data e.g. an identifier of the connection quality statistic such as a name and or a code and the value of the statistic and the date and time of the upload which may be collected from a wireless device subsystem.

Additionally in some aspects performance module may include reporting logic for communicating the exception report the performance log and or any of its components to a predetermined address such as to manager server . For example based upon configurable predetermined reporting parameter reporting logic is operable to transmit collected performance data performance statistics and or a corresponding exception report to the performance manager server and or another predetermined party. For example the information contained within performance log may be utilized by server to generate a summary report relating to wireless device performance. In another case for example reporting logic may communicate exception report to server when notified by monitoring logic that a given performance statistic meets its corresponding performance threshold setting . Further for example based upon reporting parameter predetermined information such as collected performance data and or performance statistics may be uploaded to the performance manager server on a predetermined and configurable schedule or based on a predetermined event. A predetermined event may comprise meeting one or any combination of predetermined thresholds receiving a request from an authorized party establishment of a communications connection etc. Further in some aspects after a transmission performance module may reset log and statistics .

Further monitoring configuration may include an access parameter which may determine whom to allow access to memory for example in order to retrieve performance statistics . Authorized users may include a specific remote device such as performance manager server and customer care workstation .

In some aspects selected statistics and or performance logs may be transmitted over an open communication connection between the wireless device and the wireless network piggybacking on an ongoing voice or data call across an open connection. Alternatively in a cellular network configuration performance statistics may be transmitted to performance manager through short message service SMS and or via a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP message. Furthermore another aspect of the performance manager server may pull the selected statistics from the wireless device across the network on a scheduled or ad hoc basis.

Performance module further includes wireless device control module operable to receive and carry out a control command . Upon receipt of control command the monitoring logic and or wireless device control module are is operable to parse the command and determine what action is requested. For example control command may be any command comprising an activity to be performed by the wireless device such as launching performance module updating and or executing monitoring configuration and or performing some remotely directed activity. Device control module is discussed below in more detail in reference to .

Further for example upon receiving and or executing control command monitoring logic and or wireless device control module may respond to server with a request to verify the control command as is discussed below and or with an acknowledgement message. For example such an acknowledgment message may be transmitted in response to a bootstrap command to download configuration .

In some aspects data transmission between the wireless device and remote devices e.g. remote server and customer care workstation may be transmitted over a limited access communications channel through wireless network . The communication channel may be set up based upon a limited service configuration and may be used for transmitting statistics to remote server or for downloading at least portions of performance module including monitoring configuration to wireless device . In some aspects the limited access communications channel may not be available to the end user. Further the limited access communications channel may be configured based on limited service setting that identifies allowable types of communications and the associated communication channels that may be utilized. Limited service configuration may be downloaded over wireless network may be locally transferred to wireless device such as through a serial connection or may be preloaded on the wireless device .

Referring back to performance manager server or plurality of servers may via performance manager control module in combination with communications module send software agents or applications such as any portion of performance module including monitoring configuration to wireless device across wireless network such that the wireless device returns information from its resident applications and subsystems . Performance manager server may comprise at least one of any type of server personal computer mini computer mainframe computer or any computing device either special purpose or general computing device further comprising processor assembly . Further there can be separate servers or computer devices associated with performance manager server that work in concert to provide data in usable formats to parties and or to provide a separate layer of control in the data flow between the wireless devices and performance manager server .

Performance manager server may comprise performance manager control module that may further include software hardware data and generally any executable instructions operable to manage the collection and reporting of statistics collected from wireless device . Performance manager control module may further include information repository operable to receive and store logs and or statistics and or collected performance data received from wireless device . Information repository may include any type of memory or storage device.

As mentioned above performance manager control module is operable in combination with communications module to receive uploaded statistics as well as other performance related data logs etc. and to generate performance reports which may be made available to predetermined parties such as customer service personnel. In some aspects performance manager control module may comprise report generator operable to generate and transmit an exception report to a customer care workstation when a predetermined threshold is met. Exception report may include the exception data i.e. the respective performance statistics and associated data received from wireless device . In one embodiment such an exception report may include but is not limited to wireless device identifying information a performance statistics identifier that may comprise a description and or code a value representing the performance statistic and or the threshold and the date and time of the generation of the exception report and or of the occurrence of the met threshold. Furthermore report may be transmitted to any predetermined party such as by electronic media for example facsimile and e mail. In other aspects threshold exceptions and accompanying data may be viewable online by a predetermined authorized user having access to remote server .

In addition to generating threshold exception report report generator is operable to generate a summary report based upon performance statistics received from wireless devices on a scheduled basis. Summary report may be used to monitor on a regular basis the general level of performance of one or any combination of wireless devices. For example in some aspects customer service support for wireless devices may be distributed among a number of customer service representatives who may be authorized users . In such a scenario report generator may be operable to generate a report summarizing performance statistics for a predetermined subset of wireless devices such as for high average revenue per unit ARPU customers and or by carrier to determine conformance to service level agreements SLAs . Report may be generated summarizing performance statistics for the wireless devices assigned to each authorized user .

As with exception report summary report may be viewable online to an authorized user and or may be sent to any predetermined party such as via an e mail or facsimile. For example report may be transmitted via communications module to a device such as customer care workstation . Based upon the output of report generator an authorized user may take appropriate action to resolve any issues identified.

Further performance manager control module may include configuration generator module which is executable to generate configuration under control of an authorized user such as authorized user and as previously disclosed download all or a portion of performance module including configuration to wireless device . Additionally performance manager control module may pull selected performance statistics based on commands from an authorized user upon a request from performance manager control logic or the performance statistics may be pushed from the wireless device .

Referring to one embodiment of a configuration generator module may include hardware software firmware executable instructions data and or any other associated logic that allows the configuration generator module to generate configuration . In some aspects configuration generator module may be operable to execute configuration logic that assembles the various components of a given configuration based on selections from a number of parameters. For example different network providers may utilize different mobile technologies e.g. CDMA and UMTS. Accordingly parameters that make up configuration may vary depending on the type make model of the wireless device and or the network service provider communications protocol. As such configuration logic may provide a user with the ability to select from a menu of a plurality of wireless device types models and a plurality of network service providers protocols in order to generate an appropriate menu from which to select the parameters of configuration .

In some aspects configuration generator module may include a plurality of performance parameters from which one or more configuration performance parameters are selected. The plurality of performance parameters enables an operator of the system such as authorized user to configure the performance module to monitor and report upon any predetermined number and or type of parameter that may be related to and or associated with wireless device network related and or network independent performance. The plurality of performance parameters each relate to one or more performance statistics .

Furthermore in some aspects configuration generator module may include a plurality of threshold settings from which one or more configuration threshold settings are selected. As noted above the threshold setting may correspond to a predetermined performance parameter and or statistic and may include one or more threshold conditions and one or more corresponding threshold values. The threshold value may be a value or may correspond to a given event. The threshold settings may be correlated to a corresponding performance parameter and or performance statistic.

Further in some aspects configuration generator module may include a plurality of reporting parameters from which one or more configuration reporting parameters are selected. Each of the plurality of reporting parameters may determine at when the corresponding collected statistics may be uploaded to remote server including but not limited to uploading upon the occurrence of a scheduled event at a predetermined time at a predetermined interval and upon receiving a command by a remote device such as by remote server and customer care workstation .

Furthermore rather than selecting the various parameters individually configuration logic may provide the user with the ability to select from a menu of a plurality of predetermined configurations which include predetermined groupings of the above noted parameters that comprise authorization configuration .

Further as noted above in some aspects the selected one of the plurality of wireless device types models and the selected one of the plurality of network service providers communication protocols may be correlated to a given one of a plurality of performance statistic . For example certain statistics may be unavailable or may not be relevant on devices or networks based on one protocol or standard but may be available on other devices or networks using different protocols or standards. Accordingly configuration logic may be able to determine which monitoring capabilities the wireless device should have installed based on the associated device type network carrier and or communication protocol and thus may generate monitoring configuration that includes the appropriate set of corresponding parameters.

Once the specific parameters of a given configuration are determined then configuration logic may assign unique configuration ID to the given configuration and may store this configuration in a library for later recall such as among plurality of predetermined monitoring configurations . Further configuration logic and or another component of performance manager control module may be operable to transmit configuration to one or more wireless devices to initiate the monitoring and tallying of statistics on that device.

Referring to the performance manager control module and or the wireless device may comprise device control module operable by execution of control logic to either execute control command on wireless device or transmit control command to wireless device . In some aspects as noted above the wireless device may include a version of device control module that simply carries out control commands while in other aspects the wireless device includes a fully functional version as described herein.

In some aspects for example control command may contain user identification ID and control activity . User ID may be some manner of identifying the originator of control command i.e. authorized user . For example user ID may be a name a number a digital signature a hash or any other type of data or value that may be associated with a party. Further user ID may not be explicitly contained in the control command but rather may be derived from the origin of control command . Additionally control activity may be an operation to be performed on wireless device by performance module through executing control command . As mentioned above these operations may include downloading at least portions of performance module and initiating the uploading and resetting of statistics .

Before executing or forwarding the control command device control module may execute permission logic to verify the intent of the sender of the command to perform the action as well as to determine the authority of the sender via user ID issuing control command . For example verification may be requested by wireless device prior to downloading configuration from remote server .

To determine whether a user has authorization to issue control command permission logic may parse user ID and control activity from control command and utilize a database of a plurality of user IDs correlated with a plurality of control permissions and correlated with a plurality of wireless device identifications IDs . Thus based upon whether verification is received and or whether proper authorization is found device control module generates a permission decision which determines whether or not to execute generated control command .

Control permissions may identify one or more authorized control activities for a given user ID and or wireless device ID . For instance certain users may be restricted to certain control activities or to being able to control certain wireless devices. Similarly certain wireless devices may be restricted in what control activities they are allowed to perform. The plurality of user IDs the plurality of control permissions and the plurality of wireless device IDs may be correlated in any manner. For example control command may contain a user ID of authorized user and a control activity of upload current statistics for a particular one of the plurality of wireless device IDs . Permission logic searches the database of control permissions and user IDs to determine if the user has the permission to disable executable instructions on the given wireless device .

Additionally it should be noted that the actual location of the disclosed components of the performance manager control module is non limiting and may be physically located on a server and or distributed among a plurality of network devices.

In summary in some aspects of system authorized user operating customer care workstation may proactively support customers i.e. wireless devices based upon exception report and or summary report generated by remote server . Reports may be electronically transmitted such as by e mail to the customer care workstation or may be made available for viewing on the remote server by an authorized user without requiring transmitting the reports to the customer care workstation .

In other aspects of system authorized user may be enabled to download performance module or parts thereof to one or multiple wireless devices directly from the workstation . In other aspects user workstation may be a slave to remote server requiring server to validate the operator and to manage connectivity to the wireless devices .

Referring to user workstation may comprise at least one of any type of server personal computer mini computer mainframe computer terminal or any computing device either special purpose or general computing device operable to communicate with both wireless device and remote server . In one aspect user workstation may comprise a processing engine and a communications module operable to transmit and receive messages and data between the workstation the remote server wireless device as well as any network component on wireless network . In other aspects customer care workstation may reside on any network device of wireless network such as on performance manager server another server connected to the network or even on a wireless device .

User workstation may comprise an input mechanism and an output mechanism interconnected to computer platform . The input mechanism and the output mechanism may be similar to their respective counterparts on wireless device and permits a authorized user to interface with the user workstation and via the workstation with the performance manager server and ultimately with the wireless device .

The workstation computer platform may further comprise a memory for storing applications and data files including a workstation control module executed by processing engine . Because the number of workstations and the number of field engineers are non limiting user ID may be entered into memory by authorized user and may be operable to identify the user of a particular workstation to network components including remote server and wireless device .

The workstation control module may further include authorization logic operable in conjunction with Graphic User Interface GUI logic input mechanism and output mechanism to guide the authorized user through any analysis and command activity selection and transmission. The GUI logic may control for example e mail communication report presentation as well providing a menu by which workstation command control module may select and transmit any control command to performance manager control module and wireless device .

Wireless network includes any communications network operable at least in part for enabling wireless communications between wireless device and any device connected to wireless network . Further wireless network may include all network components and all connected devices that form the network. For example wireless network may include at least one or any combination of a cellular telephone network as embodied in a multicast network such as a Forward Link Only FLO network such as the MEDIAFLO System available from Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. a digital video broadcasting DVB network such as DVB S for satellite DVB C for cable DVB T for terrestrial television DVB H for terrestrial television for handhelds a terrestrial telephone network a satellite telephone network an infrared network such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA based network a short range wireless network a BLUETOOTH technology network a ZIGBEE protocol network an ultra wide band UWB protocol network a home radio frequency HomeRF network a shared wireless access protocol SWAP network a wideband network such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA network a wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance network and a 802.11 network a public switched telephone network a public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet a private communications network and a land mobile radio network.

Suitable examples of telephone networks include at least one or any combination of analog and digital networks technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS advanced mobile phone service AMPS time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA global system for mobile communications GSM single carrier 1X radio transmission technology RTT evolution data only EV DO technology general packet radio service GPRS enhanced data GSM environment EDGE high speed downlink data packet access HSPDA analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in at least one of a wireless communications network and a data communications network.

Referring to an aspect of a cellular wireless system comprises at least one wireless device and a cellular telephone wireless network connected to a wired network via a carrier network . Cellular telephone system is merely exemplary and may include any system whereby remote modules such as wireless devices communicate packets including voice and data over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers.

According to system performance manager server may communicate over a wired network e.g. a local area network LAN with data repository for storing statistics gathered from wireless devices . Further a data management server may be in communication with performance manager server to provide post processing capabilities data flow control etc. Performance manager server data repository and data management server may be present on the cellular telephone system along with any other network components needed to provide cellular telecommunication services.

Performance manager server and or data management server may communicate with carrier network through data link such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . Further carrier network communicates with MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain old telephone service . Typically in network a network or Internet portion transfers data and the POTS portion transfers voice information. MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS by another network such as a data network and or Internet portion for data transfer and a POTS portion for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless devices such as wireless device by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods.

Referring to a method for providing exception data for performance statistics accumulated for a wireless device may initiate with an authorized user configuring at step at least a portion of performance module e.g. configuration for subsequent downloading to a single or a selection of wireless devices .

In some aspects the performance module initially may be absent from the wireless device and may be pushed by a performance manager control module to the wireless device or pulled from performance manager control module by the wireless device across a wireless network to ensure that the wireless device has the latest software version. In another alternative the pushing or pulling of the performance module to the wireless device may be configurable in any manner for example being initiated by a predetermined event.

In other aspects although a given wireless device may already have performance module resident in memory it may not however have an up to date monitoring configuration . In some aspects monitoring configuration may be generated by server . For example performance manager control module on server may execute configuration generator module to generate monitoring configuration . Further performance manager control module may execute communications module to forward monitoring configuration to one or to multiple wireless devices under direction of the authorized user .

Configuration generator module may utilize configuration logic to determine and or customize the various parameters comprising monitoring configuration and may vary depending on the type make model of the wireless device the actual network service provider and the statistic to be monitored and tallied.

Upon command of authorized user performance manager control logic may at step send a control command such as a bootstrap command to launch the performance module resident in memory of a selected wireless device. The bootstrap command may be sent over a limited communications channel and or may be sent via SMS or automated call back ACB protocols or sent using other over the air methods.

At step the wireless device control module may parse the bootstrap command and optionally verify and or authenticate the received message prior to execution. For example wireless device control module may execute the command immediately or may query the source of control command to verify the control command before executing it. In another example the device control module may utilize permission logic to check user ID and or control activity associated with control command against a permissions database to determine an authorization for the control command thereby formulating permission decision . In yet another alternative device control module may request remote server to operate device control module to verify and or authorize control command . In such as case based upon successful verification or authentication of the bootstrap command at step the performance module may establish a connection such as an HTTP connection with remote server over wireless network .

At step the performance module may obtain monitoring configuration for example by initiating a download of the configuration from the remote server . In another aspect configuration may be obtained through forwarding through a static or serial connection to wireless device or may be preloaded on wireless device during the manufacture of the wireless device .

As previously disclosed configuration may comprise performance parameters operable to control which performance statistics to monitor and calculate threshold settings that define threshold conditions and values corresponding to monitored parameters reporting parameters operable to control at what times performance statistics are uploaded to remote server and access parameters which define access permissions to wireless device provided to remote devices. After a successful download of monitoring configuration an acknowledgment may be transmitted to the remote server at step to indicate successful transmission of the configuration .

At step the performance module may run as a background process collecting performance data and generating performance statistics based upon the parsed parameters of configuration . Performance module may compare generated performance statistics to corresponding predetermined threshold settings in order to monitor the performance of the wireless device.

Upon at least one of the performance statistics meeting a corresponding one of the configured thresholds performance module may at step establish via communications module and or limited service configuration an upload mechanism with remote server . Such an uploading mechanism may include a HTTP HTTPS an FTP or other data transfer protocol. At step reporting logic may communicate a notification such as exception report including statistics configuration collected performance data and any other configurable data from the wireless device and forward the notification to a predetermined address such as to the remote server . Reporting logic in combination with communications module may forward the notification using any communication means or connection to which the wireless device has access. In one embodiment such an upload may include but is not limited to wireless device identifying information e.g. wireless ID a performance statistics identifier that may comprise a description and or code a value representing the performance statistic and or the threshold and the date and time of the generation of the exception report and or of the occurrence of the met threshold.

At step the remote server may transmit an acknowledgment message to the wireless device indicating successful upload of the statistics collected performance data and or exception report and their storage in information repository . For example in some aspects communications module is operable to receive the performance related information from the wireless device and performance manager control module is operable to direct the storage of this information in information repository .

At step report generator may access the received performance statistics collected performance data and or exception report and in some aspects may supplement and or generate exception report . Performance manager control module may at step then direct the exception report be sent to a predetermined party such as a customer service representative. Upon receipt of report authorized user may further analyze the data and take appropriate action. Alternatively the exception report may remain on the remote server where it may be made viewable by an authorized user logged into the remote server .

Similar to the exception reporting method of illustrates another aspect of system in which the wireless device may upload the statistics to remote server based upon a configurable schedule. For example this aspect may be utilized to monitor one or more predefined wireless devices and or performance parameters associated with a wireless device. Upon receipt of these scheduled uploads the remote server is operable to generate a summary report of monitored performance statistics so as to enable customer service representatives e.g. authorized users to provide proactive customer support.

Specifically the steps and are similar to that of . However the configuration received at step may comprise reporting parameters that when parsed by wireless device control module are operable at step to cause monitoring logic to establish at a predetermined time e.g. monthly an upload mechanism with remote server . Such an uploading mechanism may include a HTTP HTTPS an FTP or other data transfer protocol and may at step upload all performance statistics collected performance data configuration and any other predetermined data from the wireless device to the remote server using any communication means or connection to which the wireless device has access. Similar to the method aspect of such an upload may include but is not limited to wireless device identifying information e.g. wireless ID a performance statistics identifier that may comprise a description and or code a value representing the performance statistic and or the threshold and the date and time of the generation of the exception report and or of the occurrence of the met threshold. Upon receipt of an acknowledgement step of receipt of performance statistics in some aspects the wireless device control module may be operable to reset all logs and statistics .

At step the remote server is operable to store the received data in information repository and performance manager control module is operable to execute report generator to generate a performance summary report available to any predetermined party such as authorized user . For example in some aspects the summary report may summarize accumulated performance statistics for at least a subset of wireless devices managed by authorized user .

Although performance manager control module may generate report module and its corresponding components may be operable to present a ready view of usage data related information collected from multiple wireless devices in any form such as tables maps graphics views plain text interactive programs or web pages or any other display or presentation of the data. For example performance manager control module may present at step report and performance related information on a monitor or display device and or may transmit this information such as via electronic mail to another computer device for further analysis or review through such mechanisms as through HTTP HTTPS FTP or some other data transfer protocol.

In another aspect statistic data scheduled for uploading to remote server may be received whole or in pieces and assembled by performance manager control module . In one aspect performance manager control module may receive performance statistics over wireless network whereas another aspect may have the performance manager control module receive performance statistics through a static or serial connection to the wireless device or from some other computer device or storage media in communication with performance manager server and wireless device .

Summary performance report may include any form of output that represents analysis of performance statistics and other information contained in the information repository as well as any other associated information such as high ARPU customers known outages etc.

Thus the described aspects allow a party such as a wireless network service provider and a wireless device manufacturer to report upon the performance of a wireless device and based on those reports make decisions to proactively provide customer support. For example the monitoring may involve performance statistics such as but not limited to application usage such as the number of media files played the time spent playing the media the types of media played. Any predetermined performance parameter may be configured for monitoring and reporting.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or aspects it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or aspects as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or aspect may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or aspect unless stated otherwise.

