---

title: Call urgency screening
abstract: In some embodiments, a call urgency screening system may include one or more of the following features: (a) a data storage device comprising, (i) a call urgency screening program that allows a recipient to choose whether to accept a call from a caller or offer to the caller other alternate call handling of the call based on interaction with the caller and a dialog engine, and (b) a processor coupled to the data storage device that executes the call urgency screening program.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08189755&OS=08189755&RS=08189755
owner: Siemens Enterprise Communications, Inc.
number: 08189755
owner_city: Boca Raton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060914
---
This application is based on U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 761 691 filed on Jan. 23 2006 titled Urgency Based Call Screening and claims the benefit thereof for priority purposes and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates to telecommunications systems. In particular this invention relates to call routing systems. More particularly this invention relates to the use of presence based communication systems that notify a recipient in real time the importance of a call and enables the intelligent routing of the incoming call.

Presence based communications applications are entering the mainstream telecommunications environment. In such applications a user maintains one or more contact lists of other parties whose presence status is to be monitored and displayed to the user. If the other party is determined to be present the user s contact list will display the available status. The user can then contact the other party for example via a telephone call.

The existing presence based real time communication systems allow users to determine how and where to receive incoming calls. The users specify the rules based on the caller time of day etc. The users can also specify e mail routing rules based on the subject of the e mail urgency of the e mail etc. The use of subject and urgency for e mails provides a mechanism for the sender s of the e mails to indicate the importance of the message. Presently presence based communication systems do not allow for a user under certain circumstances like during a meeting they might be in to be able to control their availability in a more selective way other than just through a presence indication.

Therefore it is desirable to have a system that identifies the importance of calls and based upon that importance the call is routed to the appropriate destination.

These and other drawbacks in the prior art are overcome in large part by a system and method according to embodiments of the present invention.

In some embodiments a call urgency screening system may include one or more of the following features a a data storage device comprising i a call urgency screening program that allows a recipient to choose whether to accept a call from a caller based on interaction with the caller and a dialog engine and b a processor coupled to the data storage device that executes the call urgency screening program.

In some embodiments a method for call urgency screening may include one or more of the following steps a placing a call b interacting with a virtual assistant to determine importance of the call c determining if a caller should be routed to a recipient based upon importance of the call d receiving call urgency rule data and call handling options offered by the virtual assistant e determining the importance of the call f transferring the call to the recipient if it is determined that the call should be routed to the recipient or offer alternate call handling options to the caller in case the user decides not to receive the call g transferring the call to voicemail if it is determined that the call should not be routed to the recipient and h transferring the call to voicemail if the caller does not met initial rule criteria or offer alternate call handling methods to the caller in case the user decides not to receive the call.

In some embodiments a machine readable medium comprising machine executable instructions may include one or more of the following features a rule instructions that set caller urgency parameters for an incoming call b dialog instructions that obtain call importance information from a caller c delivery instructions that route the incoming call based upon recipient instructions.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not necessarily restrictive of the invention as claimed. The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute a part of the specification illustrate an embodiment of the invention and together with the general description serve to explain the principles of the invention.

The following discussion is presented to enable a person skilled in the art to make and use the present teachings. Various modifications to the illustrated embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the present teachings. Thus the present teachings are not intended to be limited to embodiments shown but are to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein. The following detailed description is to be read with reference to the figures in which like elements in different figures have like reference numerals. The figures which are not necessarily to scale depict selected embodiments and are not intended to limit the scope of the present teachings. Skilled artisans will recognize the examples provided herein have many useful alternatives and fall within the scope of the present teachings.

Embodiments of the present invention take presence based communication to next level by allowing a caller to engage in a dialogue with the recipient s automated agent or even the recipient before routing the call to the appropriate destination for a detailed conversation. During this dialogue the caller can specify the urgency of the call and based on the urgency perceived by the recipient the call can further be routed to appropriate device or person.

Embodiments of the present invention disclose a scheme through which the importance of the calls is ascertained by a combination of intelligent dialog with an automated agent and in some cases even with the recipient through alternative media. Once the importance and the urgency of the call is determined the call can be routed to the appropriate destination. In addition a way for the presence state communicated for an individual can be set to different values for specific recipients of that presence information is disclosed.

Depending on the specific contact and the urgency of their matter the user may want to be able to accept a call from a selected list of contacts when they have an urgent matter even though the user may want to appear to other contacts as unavailable and in general does not want to be interrupted. The user may further want to have the ability to screen the urgency and be able to determine whether to accept the interruption or ignore it and allow the caller other real time presence based options to handle the call. The user may want the handling of the call to be user definable via rules for example based on contact presence information location time zone device media capability keyword availability of delegates etc.

Turning now to the drawings and with particular attention to a diagram schematically illustrating a multi modal presence based telecommunications system according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown. The telecommunications system includes real time communication capabilities messaging capabilities network business applications and collaboration applications . Real time communication can include for example voice video or cellular. Messaging includes e mail instant messaging short messaging service SMS or other text based services. Business applications can include for example Customer Relationship Management CRM and Enterprise Resource Planning ERP software packages. Collaboration applications can include conferencing whiteboarding and document sharing applications.

In addition a multi modal presence feature according to embodiments of the present invention can provide presence services including history and scheduling information aggregated across the various media and .

It is noted that while illustrated as a multi modal presence system embodiments of the present invention are equally applicable to system employing only single presence based media. Thus the figures are exemplary only.

The server may include one or more controllers not shown such as one or more microprocessors and memory for storing application programs and data. Server may provide a variety of services to various associated client devices including computers telephones personal digital assistants text messaging units and the like. Thus as will be explained in greater detail below the server may implement a suite of applications as well as or including a master presence control unit according to embodiments of the present invention.

Also coupled to the LAN is a gateway which may be implemented as a gateway to a private branch exchange PBX the public switched telephone network PSTN or any of a variety of other networks such as a wireless PCS a cellular network or the Internet. In addition one or more client endpoints such as LAN or IP telephones or one or more computers may be operably coupled to the LAN .

The computers may be personal computers implementing the Windows XP operating system and thus running Windows Messenger client it is noted however that other Instant Messaging Programs could be implemented. In addition the computers may include telephony and other multimedia messaging capabilities using for example peripheral cameras microphones and speakers not shown or peripheral telephony handsets. In other embodiments one or more of the computers may be implemented as wireless telephones digital telephones or personal digital assistants PDAs . Thus the figures are exemplary only. The computers may include one or more processors such as Pentium type microprocessors and storage for applications and other programs. The computers may implement network application programs including one or more presence control units in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. In operation the presence control units allow the client endpoints to interact with the presence service s provided by the presence server .

Turning now to a block diagram illustrating a server according to embodiments of the invention is shown. As shown the server implements a master presence control unit and a server application suite . In the embodiment illustrated the multimedia server also provides interfaces such as application programming interfaces APIs to IP phones clients gateways and software developer toolkits . An exemplary server environment capable of being adapted for use in a system according to embodiments of the present invention is the OpenScape system available from Siemens Information and Communication Networks Inc. Such an environment can be implemented for example in conjunction with Windows Server Microsoft Office Live Communications Server Microsoft Active Directory Microsoft Exchange and SQL Server. It is noted that the various control units discussed herein may be implemented as any suitable hardware firmware and software or any combinations thereof.

Master presence control unit collectively includes one or more presence applications and a context manager . In certain embodiments personal profiles interface to the master presence control unit as well and may be considered part of it. Thus the master presence control unit interfaces to productivity applications to provide presence services according to embodiments of the present invention.

In the embodiment illustrated the application suite includes a personal productivity application a workgroup application and a communication broker . The personal productivity application implements various application modules priority profiles word web presence voice portal self service portal and personal portal . The workgroup collaboration application implements audio conferencing multimedia conferencing touch conferencing instant conferencing media advance and a workgroup portal . The communications broker implements a context manager configuration unit telephony features reports data storage as well as interworking services.

The priority profiles provide for handling of a user s communications and initiating specified actions such as voice calls e mails and instant messages. It allows the user to configure personal rules for each status such as In the Office On Business Trip or On Vacation and allows use of information such as who is calling and the media type to determine an action. The action may include routing to a specific device routing to the preferred device at the time sending a notification and or logging the transaction as will be discussed in more detail below.

The presence application functions as a contact list control unit and allows through the use of the contact lists monitoring the status of contacts e.g. In the Office On Vacation Working Remote etc. and monitoring the aggregated presence by media type for each contact i.e. whether the contact is accessible by phone IM or email .

The Word web provides a Microsoft Word based scripting for development of telephony applications. The self service portal provides guest access to messaging calendaring and document retrieval features such as Voicemail Functions leave a message transfer from voicemail Calendar Functions schedule cancel modify appointments with a subscriber get email confirmation and Document Access Functions authenticate user based on PIN and allow reading email or fax back of documents stored in Exchange folders. The voice portal provides user access to groupware features via the telephone. These can include for example Calendar Access functions accept decline modify appointments block out time voicemail email access functions Inbox access with message sorting options List total retrieve listen skip forward reply etc. .

In general default user rules and actions are provided by the system users to specify custom rules and actions using the Personal Productivity Portal e.g. an interface to a client browser. During runtime users can set their Presence State or specify a Preferred Device using either the Personal Productivity Portal or the Voice Portal

The Workgroup Collaboration Portal which may be implemented as a browser interface allows users to initiate audio or multi media conferencing sessions and view documents that have been checked in to the Workgroup Repository not shown . The audio conferencing module and the multimedia conferencing module allow the user to set up audio or multimedia conference sessions. The Instant Conference module launches an audio or WebEx multimedia conferencing session based on contact lists or address book s . The Touch Conference module allows the user to see the participant list and their presence status. The Media Advance module offers users the point and click option to advance an existing audio conference to a multimedia collaborative session.

The communications broker provides various communication services. The Context Manager provides user presence availability states for users such as In the Office On Vacation Working Remote etc. and provides device presence and device context for both SIP registered devices and user defined non SIP devices. In addition the context manager provides across the set of devices for a user aggregated presence by media type e.g. voice IM and email. For example if a user is accessible by any phone device such as an office phone a home phone or a mobile phone the aggregated presence for the user would indicate accessibility via the media type telephone . Based on the aggregated presence information for each media type e.g. available via telephone not available via IM available via email others can choose the best medium of making contact with this user.

The telephony features give applications access to connection management features via CSTA computer supported telecommunications applications e.g. make a call transfer call set up conference etc. and provide address translation from dialing digits to SIP URL to broker connectivity between telephony devices and soft clients. The Interworking Services provide SIP gateway interworking e.g. interworking with PSTN and PBX networks . Reports Data Storage provides a repository for system and data reports.

The Context Manager is a service that ties together a view of all users. This view may include the presence and availability of users the state of users e.g. in a voice call each user s collaboration session associations etc. The result is a detailed view of what the user and their devices are doing at any point in time. This information is used by other network users and system components to make decisions about how to contact the user.

It is noted that while a presence server in a unified messaging system is shown the teachings of the present invention are equally applicable to a presence system associated with a single medium such as Instant Messaging. Thus the figures are exemplary only.

With reference to one implementation of a call urgency screening system in an embodiment of the present invention is shown. Call urgency screening system is described with the following example. Jane has her presence status set to On business trip as described in detail above. Therefore to all other users it will appear as if Jane is not in the office. Jack is interacting with network which has access to presence based telecommunications system and can see on his computer that Jane s presence is set to On Business Trip . This presence state is available to Jack because he has been set as a Team Member in Jane s contact list. Other system users not explicitly identified receive a presence state of Unavailable . Furthermore embodiments of the present invention disclose a way for the presence state communicated for an individual can be set to different values for specific recipients of that presence information. It is noted that a user has the ability to select certain individual s or group s of contacts to present their presence differently then to others. This can be controlled by rules or other presence influencing parameters. So for example a user might want to indicate to their direct reports and their manager to be available even though they are busy in a meeting which is the presence indication to other users. This may not only influence their presence status seen by other users but can also influence the real time communication handling when others try to reach the user. The handling of the incoming communication may in this case get handled differently for the user s direct reports and manager versus other users.

Jack is dealing with an important and urgent matter and needs to talk with Jane so Jack chooses to call Jane . Upon receiving Jack s call Jane s virtual assistant answers the call. Virtual assistant could be located on server . Dialogue engine initiates a conversation with Jack to ascertain the importance and the urgency of the call. The communication with Jack could be by email IM SMS pop up display message or similar visual indication or by voice using text to speech software. In its simplistic form dialog engine prompts Jack to specify whether the call is urgent. Dialogue engine can also prompt Jack to specify the matter of the urgency and perform a search of specific keywords in rules specified by Jane as important. Alternatively dialog engine can engage Jane with an IM instant messaging session thus allowing Jane to intervene and influence the routing of the call. Jane could also engage in inter media dialogue such as IM to Voice and vice versa with Jack to understand the nature of the call. After ascertaining the nature of the call the call is routed based on rules or the preference specified by Jane in real time. Rules for the purpose of this disclosure will take the real time presence information of for example other users that have been assigned by the user as their delegates user location time zone device media capability calendar context and other user definable conditions in consideration to determine what options are being offered to the caller and how to most effectively deal with the call for further processing routing. The call can be routed back to Jane s assistant to be placed in voicemail based on Jane s rules or instructions.

With reference to a flow chart diagram of a call urgency screening system according to embodiments of the present invention is shown. It is fully contemplated that other implementations of a call urgency system could be implemented without departing from the spirit of the invention. At state a user such as Jack or Jane would input their call handling rules that are received by virtual assistant . These preferences could include a list of phone numbers which can be passed through regardless of the recipient s presence information a list of phone numbers or other means of identifying the caller that can be passed though based upon the recipient s presence information and a list of phone numbers which are not passed to the recipient at all and is automatically sent into voice mail. Inside rules user can also set how the recipient will interact with assistant and or the caller. For example the recipient could instruct dialogue engine to obtain call importance information directly from the caller. Dialog engine can be set up to prompt the caller to specify the context of the call and then perform a search of specific keywords stored in rules specified by the recipient as important. Dialog engine can engage the recipient with an IM session to ask the recipient where to route the call. Dialog engine could allow the recipient to have an intermedia dialog via IM IM to voice and or Voice to IM with the caller to determine the nature of the call.

At state program detects that a call has been placed to the recipient. At state program determines if the caller satisfies initial criteria for receipt of the call. If the caller can be routed through to the recipient then they are at state . If a caller is not on the caller s list of people to be let though due to presence condition or otherwise the caller is transferred to virtual assistant at state . Dialog engine can then ascertain the importance of the call in any one of the ways discussed in detail above. Dialog engine can then determine if the recipient wishes to receive the call or offer the caller alternate call handling at state . If the recipient does wish to receive the call then the caller is transfer to the recipient at state . If the recipient does not wish to receive the call then the caller is transferred to voicemail or other options based on presence and rules such as connecting to one of the user s delegates or set a callback. Further dialog engine can record the voicemail as well.

Input device and display are also in communication with communication bus . Any known input device may be used as input device including a keyboard mouse touch pad voice recognition system or any combination of these devices. Input device may be used by a user to input information and commands and select a destination party parties to initiate instant messaging.

Display may be an integral or separate CRT display a flat panel display or the like. Display is generally used to output graphics and text to an operator in response to commands issued by microprocessor . Display may display presentation data and the like which is used during the call urgency screening.

RAM Random Access Memory is connected to communication bus to provide microprocessor with fast data storage and retrieval. In this regard processor executable process steps being executed by microprocessor are typically stored temporarily in RAM and executed therefrom by microprocessor . ROM Read Only Memory in contrast may provide storage from which data can be retrieved but to which data cannot be stored. Accordingly ROM may be used to store invariant process steps and other data such as basic input output instructions and data used during system boot up or to control input device . One or both of RAM and ROM may communicate directly with microprocessor instead of over communication bus or on separate dedicated busses.

Data storage device stores among other data processor executable process steps of call urgency screening program discussed with respect to . The process steps and program code of program and the like may be read from a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk a CD ROM a DVD ROM a Zip disk a magnetic tape or a signal encoding the process steps program code and then stored in data storage device in a raw compressed un compiled and or encrypted format. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with processor executable process steps for implementation of the processes described herein. Thus embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware firmware and software.

Also illustrated is a network interface which may be a wired or wireless Ethernet interface a modem interface and so on. In utilizing the various embodiments of the invention the network interface may be connected to or to provide or access a high speed connection to the Internet or an Intranet providing access to the Internet or similar networks. Using such a network or networks computing device can communicate identifiers of destination parties to a mobile application server.

Stored in data storage device may also be other elements that may be necessary for operation of computing device such as other applications other data files a network server an operating system a database management system and device drivers for allowing microprocessor to interface with external devices. These elements are known to those skilled in the art and are therefore not described in detail herein.

It is believed that the present invention and many of its attendant advantages will be understood by the foregoing description and it will be apparent that various changes may be made in the form construction and arrangement of the components thereof without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention or without sacrificing all of its material advantages. The form herein before described being merely an explanatory embodiment thereof it is the intention of the following claims to encompass and include such changes.

