---

title: Methods, systems, and computer program products for providing message management services
abstract: A method, system, and computer program product for creating a reminder to take action on a message is provided. The method includes presenting a message that includes communication detail components and content. The method also includes receiving a request to create a reminder to take action on the message and creating a reminder that includes at least the communication detail components. The method further includes sending the reminder to a location. The location and information is related to an action to be taken and is specified by a recipient of the message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08175227&OS=08175227&RS=08175227
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08175227
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060630
---
The present invention relates generally to managing message communications and more particularly to methods systems and computer program products for providing a reminder to take action on messages.

Messaging systems such as voicemail provide message communications services to people all around the world. Messaging subscribers can access messages stored in their inboxes from any location and at any time of the day. With the advent of packet switching technology message communications options have expanded and developed into new applications such as email and instant messaging. Today it is not uncommon for an individual to maintain more than one messaging account e.g. email account voicemail account etc. . In addition employers often provide messaging services to their employees so that an individual employee may have multiple messaging accounts each serving a different purpose e.g. work related email account home personal email account . Maintaining multiple messaging system accounts can be cumbersome and confusing for the individual particularly when trying to reconcile items requiring action on the part of the individual. For example when accessing a voicemail account and detecting a new message in the voicemail inbox the individual may need to track the message so that future action can be taken e.g. returning the call scheduling a meeting etc. . However oftentimes it is not feasible for the individual to take the appropriate action at the time the voicemail message is presented to the individual. This may result in the individual forgetting to take the required action. Although this problem is particularly prevalent and noticeable in current voicemail messaging systems it may also be a problem in other types of messaging systems.

What is needed therefore is a way to provide reminders to users of a messaging system such as a voicemail system to take future action on a message.

Exemplary embodiments include a method for creating a reminder to take action on a message. The method includes presenting a message that includes communication detail components and content. The method also includes receiving a request to create a reminder to take action on the message and creating a reminder that includes at least the communication detail components. The method further includes sending the reminder to a location. The location and information is related to an action to be taken and is specified by a recipient of the message.

Additional exemplary embodiments include a system and computer program product for providing a reminder to take action on voicemail system messages.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of the exemplary embodiments and be protected by the accompanying claims.

The detailed description explains the exemplary embodiments together with advantages and features by way of example with reference to the drawings.

In accordance with exemplary embodiments methods systems and computer program products for implementing reminders for users of a voicemail system to take action on a voicemail message are provided. The reminders are implemented via message management services as described herein.

Turning now to an exemplary system upon which the message management services may be implemented will now be described. The system of includes a voicemail system server in communication with recipient communications devices a recipient user system and an email calendar server over one or more networks and . While a voicemail server and an email calendar server are shown for ease of illustration it should be appreciated that the invention is applicable to any kind of messaging system not limited to voicemail and email calendar messaging systems.

Voicemail system server provides voicemail services to users of communications devices e.g. recipient communications devices typically for a fee. Voicemail system server may include a high speed processing device for handling the receipt and storage of voicemail messages on behalf of its user population e.g. subscribers of the voicemail system services . In exemplary embodiments voicemail messages received by voicemail system server are stored in a data repository via e.g. accounts established for its user population. This voicemail message database of data repository stores voicemail inboxes for each user of the voicemail system services.

Voicemail system server executes one or more applications for implementing these voicemail services. For example voicemail system server may execute an application for managing the user accounts and services such as creating editing and deleting voice mailboxes establish rules for storage capacities and length of time each message may be stored as well as subscription terms and conditions. The voicemail system services include providing call detail information with each voicemail message. For example call detail information may include the calling party s telephone number call origination number a date timestamp the call is received a name of the calling party a priority rating of the call e.g. urgent low priority etc. etc. In addition to the call detail information the message content itself is stored in the voicemail message database of data repository .

Voicemail system server also executes a message management application for implementing the reminder services of the message management system described herein. The message management application may be integrated with the voicemail system as a single application or may be separate from the voicemail system. If separate the message management application may include an application programming interface API to communicate with the voicemail system and provide seamless facilitation of the voicemail system and message management services described herein.

The message management application utilizes a profiles database stored in a data repository for facilitating the reminder services. The profiles database includes information relating to users of the message management services. Examples of information stored in the profiles database may include user names user addresses user telephone numbers user account numbers user email addresses and device capabilities e.g. voice device dual mode voice data device Internet service provider of the device etc. . Data repositories and may be external storage elements with respect to the voicemail system server internal storage elements or a combination thereof. If external data repositories and are physically or logically addressable to the voicemail system server via direct or indirect communications means such as network cabling wireless communications technologies etc.

Voicemail system server may also execute a speech to text conversion application for converting the content of voicemail messages to text files as will be described further herein.

In exemplary embodiments recipient communications devices refer to communications devices operated by recipients of the voicemail system services and message management services described herein. Recipient communications devices may be voice only devices e.g. communications devices A B dual mode communications devices e.g. communications devices C D or devices not providing voice services not shown . For example communications device represents a cellular telephone with no data capabilities that communicates over a cellular network e.g. one of networks with voicemail system server in order to retrieve and manipulate voicemail messages e.g. listen save delete forward etc. . Recipient communications device B refers to a wireline telephone with voice only capabilities that communicates over a circuit switched network e.g. one of networks with voicemail system server to perform similar activities as those described above with respect to recipient communications device A.

Recipient communications devices C D represent dual mode communications devices with both voice and data capabilities that are equipped to communicate over both circuit switched and packet switched networks e.g. networks with voicemail system server . As shown in the system of recipient communications device C represents a cellular telephone and recipient communications device D represents a digital processing device e.g. a personal digital assistant or similar mobile computing device .

According to an exemplary embodiment each of recipient communications devices A B receives message management services via a voice interface provided by the message management application while each of recipient communications devices C D receives message management services via either a voice interface or a web based interface of the message management application .

In exemplary embodiments recipient user system refers to a processing device associated with a user of the message management services e.g. one of the users of recipient devices A D . Thus e.g. the user of the recipient user system may be the same as the user or at least the same as an account holder of recipient communications device A. Recipient user system receives reminders created via the message management services based upon options selected by a voicemail message recipient as described further herein. Alternatively or in combination reminders may be received at recipient communications devices .

Recipient user system executes one or more applications such as an email client calendar task application web browser etc. As shown in the system of recipient user system stores an email message inbox a voicemail message inbox and a calendar task folder . Alternatively one or more of these inboxes folder could be stored on the network e.g. on voicemail system server . In exemplary embodiments voicemail message inbox stores reminders generated via the message management services as described further herein.

Email calendar server facilitates transmissions of email reminders and or calendar events generated by the message management application . For example message management application creates an email message that is forwarded to recipient user system via email calendar server . Alternatively voicemail system server and email calendar server may be integrated into a single processing system.

As indicated above the message management services provide the ability to create a reminder for a recipient of a message such as a voicemail message to take some future action on the message. The message management services may be implemented utilizing a voice interface for voice only devices and or may be implemented utilizing a data interface for dual mode or data only devices. Turning now to a flow diagram describing a process for implementing the message management services for voice related devices will now be described in accordance with exemplary embodiments.

The process begins at step whereby a user of one of recipient devices A B accesses the voicemail system of voicemail system server at step . Following the user responses to prompts provided by the voicemail system the voicemail system of server retrieves a new voicemail message from data repository and presents it to the user i.e. the user listens to the voicemail at step .

At step the messaging application prompts the user with options for handling the voicemail message e.g. save save as new delete forward or reminder . These options may be implemented by audio prompts provided by voicemail system server corresponding to keys on the recipient communications device e.g. press 1 to save press 2 to save as new press 3 to delete press 4 to forward and press 5 to remind . If the user selects any option other than the reminder option the voicemail is handled using standard voicemail system procedures e.g. save save as new delete forward at step . The process then continues to step .

If however the user selects the reminder option at step the message management application retrieves the user s email address from the profiles database of data repository at step . The message management application accesses the email calendar server if separate from the voicemail system server at step and generates an email message at step . The message management application populates the header field addressing field of the email message with the recipient s email address. In addition a voicemail identifier may be entered into the subject line of the email message to distinguish it from other voicemail messages and or other email messages. For example a voicemail identifier may include the time date stamp of the voicemail message or may provide the identification of the calling party who left the voicemail message.

At step voicemail components are entered into the body of the email message. The voicemail components may include any of the call detail information e.g. calling party telephone number date timestamp of the voicemail message calling party name priority rating of the voicemail message etc. .

At step the email message is transmitted to the email address of the recipient i.e. email address of recipient user system creating a reminder to the recipient of the missed call.

At step the voicemail message is deleted from the voicemail inbox of the recipient i.e. from voicemail message database of data repository . This step is optional as the voicemail message may be saved if desired. However in exemplary embodiments the voicemail message is deleted from the voicemail inbox of the recipient in order to better manage and prevent over clutter of the inbox.

At step it is determined whether the recipient is finished e.g. whether additional new voicemail messages exist in the voicemail inbox of the recipient . If so the process ends at step . Otherwise the process returns to step whereby the next voicemail message is retrieved.

As indicated above the message management services may be provided for dual mode devices. Turning now to a flow diagram describing a process for implementing the message management services for dual mode voice data devices in exemplary embodiments will now be described. The message management application provides a user interface for facilitating the processes described in . Sample user interface screens as seen by a user of recipient device C D are shown and described in .

At step the voicemail system of voicemail system server is accessed by a user of one of recipient devices C D. The message management application presents message options to the user via e.g. the user interface screen of . As shown in user interface screen there are three message options presented for accessing messages which include NEW MESSAGES 1 SENT MESSAGES and SAVED MESSAGES. These message options are shown for illustrative purposes. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that alternative or additional message options may be provided. The 1 displayed after NEW MESSAGES reflects that one new message is stored in the recipient s voicemail inbox in data repository . If the user selects the NEW MESSAGES message option the message management application presents a list of voicemail options as shown in sub window of user interface at step . Voicemail options include LISTEN REMINDER SAVE and DELETE. Voicemail options further include END not shown . The reminder services of the message management application are initiated when the user selects the REMINDER option .

If the user selects the LISTEN option the voicemail system delivers the voicemail message to the user at step and the process returns to step whereby the voicemail options are again presented to the user. In this manner the user may perform a second action on the voicemail in response to having listened to it e.g. reminder save or delete the voicemail message .

If the user selects the REMINDER option reminder options are provided to the user at recipient device C or D via a user interface screen at step a sample of which is shown and described in . These reminder options are described further in .

If the user selects the SAVE option the voicemail system stores the voicemail message in data repository at step and the process returns to step . Likewise if the user selects the DELETE option the voicemail system removes the voicemail message from data repository at step and the process returns to step . The user may also select END at any time whereby the voicemail system terminates the session at step .

Turning now to the reminder functions of the message management application will now be described in exemplary embodiments. The reminder functions provide the user with an option to establish a reminder to take some future action on a voicemail message. The reminder may be implemented as an email message a calendar entry or a task. As indicated above if the user selects the REMINDER option via user interface of the message management application presents the user interface screen of via one of recipient communications devices C D. As shown in user interface screen the reminder options include VOICEMAIL AUDIO FILE VOICEMAIL TEXT FILE CALENDAR TASK and APPEND COMMENT. As shown and described in it will be appreciated that the activities provided via the reminder option may occur before during after or in lieu of listening to the voicemail message.

In exemplary embodiments an email reminder is generated via the message management application as described in . The email reminder may be a simple email message that includes call detail information of the voicemail message or may be a detailed email message that includes an attached audio file and or a text file of the voicemail message content.

If the user selects the VOICEMAIL AUDIO FILE option from user interface screen of the messaging application accesses the profiles database of data repository of and retrieves the email address of the user at step . At step the message management application generates an email message and provides the email address in the header section of the email message. The message management application may also provide a voicemail identifier in the subject line of the email address to distinguish the email message from others. The voicemail identifier may include call detail information such as the telephone number of the calling party the name of the calling party the date timestamp of the voicemail a priority rating assigned to the voicemail etc.

At step the message management application attaches an audio file of the voicemail i.e. the voicemail message content to the email. For example the audio file might be a .WAV file. The format of the audio file may be determined using e.g. the device capabilities of recipient device C or D that are stored in the profiles database of data repository .

If desired the user may append a comment to the email message via APPEND COMMENT option in user interface screen of . The comment may be remarks offered by the recipient as a supplementary reminder to the email message. For example suppose the voicemail message is from an employer of the recipient and the voicemail message content includes notification of an upcoming meeting on Wednesday. The supplemental remarks added by the recipient to the email message might be pick up suit from dry cleaners on Tuesday or reschedule Wednesday s dentist appointment . The comment may be implemented via a voice recording provided by the recipient into the recipient communications device C D or may be a text file implemented by entering data into the recipient device C D via e.g. keypad.

Returning now to it is determined whether the user would like to append a comment to the email message at step . If so the user is prompted to select either a voice comment or a text comment at step . Alternatively depending upon the device capabilities provided in the profiles database of data repository the prompt may include only the options specified in the profiles database that correspond to the capabilities of the device.

The user enters the comment either text or voice which is transmitted over network s and received by the message management application via voicemail system server at step . At step the message management application appends the comment as one of a text file or audio file to the email message at step and transmits the email to the recipient user system at step . Alternatively if the user desires not to append a comment the email message with attached audio file from step is transmitted to the recipient user system at step .

As indicated above the user may select a reminder that includes an email with text file via VOICEMAIL TEXT FILE option of user interface screen of and as described in steps of . If the user selects the VOICEMAIL TEXT FILE option the message management application accesses profiles database of data repository and retrieves the recipient s email address at step . The message management application generates an email message and enters the email address into the header section of the email message at step . The audio or digital recording of the voicemail message content is converted to text via the speech to text conversion application implemented by voicemail system server at step . A text file is created from the results of the conversion and is entered into the body of the email message or attached to the email message as an attachment at step . The user may then be prompted to append a comment and the process continues with steps as described above with respect to the VOICEMAIL AUDIO FILE features. Once the email message has been transmitted at step the process returns to step whereby the reminder options of user interface screen of are again presented.

As described above the user may be provided with options that provide a reminder via a calendar entry or task folder entry e.g. to do list . These features are described in . If the user selects the CALENDAR option of user interface screen of a sub window is presented that includes further options. These options include CALL BACK REMINDER and ACTION ITEM. A call back reminder may be a simple calendar entry in the recipient s calendar application specifying a date and optionally a time in which the recipient will return the call associated with the voicemail message. The entry may also include the calling party s telephone number. An action item may include a note in the recipient s calendar application to take some action other than calling back the party identified in the voicemail message. For example the action item may specify the date time location and descriptor of the action e.g. a meeting . Thus the calendar entry may be a scheduled event that includes information elements relating to the event.

If the user selects the CALENDAR option of user interface screen of the message management application opens a calendar application on the recipient communications device C or D at step and presents a sub window that includes a calendar. The user is prompted to create a call back reminder or action item via sub window of user interface screen at step . If the user selects the CALL BACK REMINDER option the message management application prompts the user to select a date and optionally a time to call back the person identified in the voicemail message at step . This information may be entered via e.g. the keypad on the recipient communications device C or D.

At step the message management application creates the reminder using the voicemail components of the voicemail message. For example the caller identity and or the calling telephone number may be integrated into the reminder such as Call John at 555 123 4567 . The reminder may be entered into a date on the calendar that is selected by the user in step at step . Once the call back reminder is completed the process returns to step of whereby the reminder options of user interface screen are again presented to the user.

If on the other hand the user selects the ACTION ITEM option from sub window of user interface screen of the message management application presents further action menu items to the user e.g. meeting doctor appointment seminar etc. at step . These action menu items provide the descriptor for the action event. Alternatively or in combination the user may enter a custom event using the input elements of the recipient communications device C or D.

At step the message management application creates an action item using the selected descriptor and voicemail components e.g. call detail components and enters the action item into the calendar at step . The process then returns to step of .

The calendar entries described in may also be implemented on the recipient user system via e.g. email calendar server and network s .

The user is provided with an option to close the reminder features via the reminder options not shown whereby the process returns to step of .

As described above the exemplary embodiments can be in the form of computer implemented processes and apparatuses for practicing those processes. The exemplary embodiments can also be in the form of computer program code containing instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other computer readable storage medium wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the exemplary embodiments. The exemplary embodiments can also be in the form of computer program code for example whether stored in a storage medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via electromagnetic radiation wherein when the computer program code is loaded into an executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the exemplary embodiments. When implemented on a general purpose microprocessor the computer program code segments configure the microprocessor to create specific logic circuits.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the claims. Moreover the use of the terms first second etc. do not denote any order or importance but rather the terms first second etc. are used to distinguish one element from another. Furthermore the use of the terms a an etc. do not denote a limitation of quantity but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced item.

