---

title: Apparatus and methods for detection and management of unauthorized executable instructions on a wireless device
abstract: Detection and management methods and apparatus for wireless devices may include an executable instruction authorization module operable to scan executable instructions on a wireless device, generate a log indicative of a virus or otherwise unauthorized executable instructions based on a received authorization configuration, and forward the log to a user manager. The user manager may be operable to analyze the log and generate an authorization report which may be viewable by an operator to determine the disposition of unauthorized executable instructions. At least one of the executable instruction authorization module, the user manager, and the operator may be operable to generate a control command operable to delete, or otherwise disable, unauthorized executable instructions on the wireless device, or to restore the executable instructions on the wireless device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07770785&OS=07770785&RS=07770785
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 07770785
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060515
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 690 222 entitled Methods and Apparatus for Scanning Virus in a Wireless Device filed Jun. 13 2005 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The described embodiments generally relate to wireless communication devices and computer networks. More particularly the described embodiments relate to the detection and disposition of unauthorized executable instructions on a wireless device.

Wireless networking connects one or more wireless devices to other computer devices without a direct electrical connection such as a copper wire or optical cable. Wireless devices communicate data typically in the form of packets across a wireless or partially wireless computer network and open a data or communication channel on the network such that the device can send and receive data packets. The wireless devices often have wireless device resources such as programs and hardware components which individually and cooperatively operate to use and generate data in accordance to their design and specific protocol or configuration such as using open communication connections to transmit and receive data on the network.

Wireless devices are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers. These smart wireless devices such as cellular telephones have application programming interfaces APIs installed onto their local computer platform that allow software developers to create software applications that operate on the cellular telephone. The API sits between the wireless device system software and the software application making the cellular telephone functionality available to the application without requiring the software developer to have the specific cellular telephone system source code.

In one aspect the integrity of the wireless device may be compromised by either the intended or non intended downloading of certain executable instructions. In one scenario such downloads may include a malicious program targeting cellular telephones for example spread through Bluetooth wireless systems. Such executable instructions may be a worm program whose task could be as simple as stealing the cellular telephone s address book or generating costly and annoying text message spam. Another potential threat to the integrity of a wireless device may take the form of a denial of service attack on a wireless service provider by making the cellular telephone dial many numbers in rapid succession. In another example malicious applications may affect the operation of the wireless device allowing the wireless device to be used for a different wireless network service provider than the one for which it was purchased. In this case the original wireless network service provider may lose money if it subsidized the price of the wireless device based on the agreement that the wireless device would only be used on the original network service provider s network.

Furthermore an initial scan of a downloaded application may not prove sufficient to detect possible malicious intent. It may be necessary to monitor the operation of the program to determine whether or not an application first thought to be authorized has either been modified or has indeed performed some unauthorized act i.e. accessed a protected memory location.

In addition to the possible loss of device integrity due to either malicious or unintentional downloading of unauthorized executable instructions a cellular carrier network may lose revenue by uncompensated downloading of otherwise non malicious executables. For example in many cases when a new mobile device is introduced to the market and is well received by the public a host of software companies will attempt to cash in on the popularity of the product by offering third party applications. These executables when made available to the user via sources other than the cellular manufacturer or carrier not only may adversely affect the operation of the wireless device but may also result in millions of dollars in lost revenue.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide an apparatus and method that allows for scanning a wireless device for executable instructions monitoring its operation and may include the deleting and otherwise disabling of such instructions based upon an authorization schema.

The described embodiments comprise apparatus methods computer readable media and processors operable for managing executable instructions on a wireless device based upon a flexible authorization configuration and control commands supplied by at least one of a network service provider wireless device manufacturer and other authorizing parties. The authorization configuration may initiate the detection deletion disablement or otherwise management actions of malicious files or other unauthorized executable instructions so that the quality of service of the respective wireless device is maintained revenue is generated and lost revenue is minimized.

Virus scanning methods and apparatus for wireless devices may include an authorization module operable on a wireless device to apply an authorization schema to executable instructions on the wireless device. The executable instructions may not be limited to executable file types. For instance executable instructions may be found in any file type for example picture files movie files text files and sound files i.e. ring tones. The memory may be scanned according the authorization schema and a log of unauthorized instructions may be generated and forwarded to a user manager.

The user manager may be operable to analyze the log to determine whether the logged executable instructions may be authorized or whether the logged executable instructions contain a virus or is otherwise unauthorized as well as to determine any action to be taken in regard to the executable instructions identified as unauthorized executable instructions.

In addition the user manager may be operable to generate an authorization report which may be viewable by an operator. If not approved by the operator the unauthorized executable may be treated as being undesirable such as a virus and may be deleted or otherwise disabled.

Additionally the network service provider may need to be able to disable an executable on a wireless device when the executable for that specific wireless device has become obsolete or when the wireless device is being used on a different service provider s network in violation of an agreement.

In one aspect a wireless device comprises a memory comprising executable instructions a device type corresponding to wireless device and an authorization configuration having an authorization schema that identifies at least one of authorized and unauthorized executable executable instructions wherein the authorization schema is based upon a device type associated with the wireless device. The wireless device additionally comprises an authorization module resident in the memory. The authorization module comprises authorization logic operable to scan executable instructions and generate a log based upon the authorization configuration. The log comprises an identification of the executable instructions determined to be unauthorized based upon the authorization schema.

Another aspect of a wireless device may comprise means for obtaining an authorization configuration comprising an authorization schema that identifies at least one of authorized executable instructions and unauthorized executable instructions wherein the authorization schema is based upon a device type associated with the wireless device. This aspect of the wireless device may further comprise means for scanning executable instructions based upon the authorization configuration and means for logging at least portions of the scanned executable instructions into a log based upon the authorization schema. Additionally this aspect of the wireless device may further comprise means for forwarding the log to another device to determine a disposition of the logged executable instructions.

In another aspect a method of managing executable instructions on a wireless device comprises obtaining an authorization configuration comprising an authorization schema that identifies at least one of authorized and unauthorized executable instructions wherein the authorization schema is based upon a device type associated with the wireless device. This aspect of the method also comprises scanning executable instructions based upon the authorization configuration and logging at least portions of the scanned executable instructions into a log based upon the authorization schema. Additionally this aspect of the method further comprises forwarding the log to another device to determine a disposition of the logged executable instructions. In a related aspect at least one processor is configured to perform the above described actions. Another related aspect comprises a machine readable medium comprising instructions which when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform operations comprising the actions noted above.

A further aspect comprises an apparatus for managing executable instructions on a wireless device comprises a configuration generator operable to generate and transmit an authorization configuration for receipt by a wireless device. The authorization configuration comprises an authorization schema that identifies at least one of authorized executable instructions and unauthorized executable instructions wherein the authorization schema is based upon a device type associated with the wireless device. Further the apparatus comprises an information repository operable to receive and store a log the log comprising unauthorized executable instructions on the wireless device based on the authorization configuration. Additionally the apparatus comprises an executable instruction control module comprising an analyzer operable to generate an authorization report based on the log.

A further aspect of an apparatus for managing executable instructions on a wireless device may comprise means for generating an authorization configuration executable to initiate scanning and logging of executable instructions resident on a wireless device. The authorization configuration comprises an authorization schema that identifies at least one of authorized executable instructions and unauthorized executable instructions wherein the authorization schema is based upon a device type associated with the wireless device. This aspect further comprises means for forwarding the authorization configuration for receipt by the wireless device and means for receiving a generated log from the wireless device based on the authorization configuration. Additionally this aspect comprises means for generating an authorization report based on the received log.

An aspect of a method of executable instruction management on a wireless device comprises generating an authorization configuration executable to initiate scanning and logging of executable instructions resident on a wireless device. The authorization configuration comprises an authorization schema that identifies at least one of authorized executable instructions and unauthorized executable instructions wherein the authorization schema is based upon a device type associated with the wireless device. This aspect further comprises forwarding the authorization configuration for receipt by the wireless device and receiving a generated log from the wireless device based on the authorization configuration. Additionally this aspect comprises generating an authorization report based on the received log. In a related aspect at least one processor is configured to perform the above described actions. Another related aspect comprises a machine readable medium comprising instructions which when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform operations comprising the actions noted above.

Generally system may include a wireless device in communication with a user manager server which provides device control functionality via a wireless network . Further user manager may be in communication with an operator workstation which provides access to the functionality of user manager server such as via a wired or wireless connection. In one scenario wireless device receives authorization configuration which may be provided by executable instruction control module of user manager to detect executable instructions received by and or resident on the wireless device and to determine whether or not the instructions are unauthorized and thus may be considered a virus. Log on wireless device stores unauthorized executable instruction information which comprises at least some relevant portion of any detected virus and or unauthorized executable instructions and as may be dictated by authorization configuration . User manager receives log from wireless device and analyzer processes the log and generates an authorization report providing details relating to the executable instructions detailed by the unauthorized instruction information . The authorization report may be reviewed such as by operator at workstation and a control command may be generated to provide a disposition of the unauthorized executable instructions such as to delete a virus or allow a non virus and or to update authorization configuration such as to update the identification of authorized and or unauthorized executable instructions based on the information contained in authorization report .

At step authorization logic which may run as a background process in the wireless device is operable to parse the received configuration file to derive configuration parameters including but not limited to tracking parameter reporting parameter action parameter and authorization schema . Based upon tracking parameter the authorization logic may scan executable instructions upon being downloaded onto device or may scan all memory resident executable instructions on the wireless device .

Scanning for unauthorized executable instructions may be implemented using at least one of several mechanisms stored in the authorization schema . Based upon authorization schema specific elements of instructions determined to be unauthorized may be stored in log as unauthorized executable instruction information . Alternatively or in addition wireless device may include logic that allows for automatic deletion or disablement of unauthorized executable instructions upon detection of the unauthorized executable instructions as is discussed below in more detail.

At step log may be uploaded from wireless device across a wireless network to the user manager . Executable instruction control module may be operable to store log in an information repository .

At step executable instruction control module may access log and execute an analyzer operable to process the log analyze the collected data and generate an authorization report . Analyzer is discussed in detail further below.

At step executable instruction control module may transmit authorization report across the wireless network in one aspect to operator workstation for review. In one aspect the operator may review the authorization report at step and transmit at step a control command to the user manager and control manager may validate the command at step before relaying the command to the wireless device at step . The command may be operable at step to execute activities on the wireless device including but not limited to deleting and disabling unauthorized executable instructions restoring previously disabled executable instructions and or updating an authorization status of a given executable instruction such as by adding the executable instruction to an authorized executable instructions list or removing the executable instruction from an unauthorized executable instruction list.

It should be noted that in some alternate aspects the above sequence of events may be initiated at step by wireless device or a device user directly contacting operator communications device or the associated operator to report suspicion of a virus. In this scenario at step operator communications device or the associated operator sends a message to user manager to direct the downloading of executable instruction module and or authorization configuration to the respective wireless device .

Thus the present apparatus methods computer readable media and processors operate to provide executable instruction management on a wireless device based upon a modifiable authorization configuration .

Referring to wireless device can include any type of computerized wireless device such as cellular telephone personal digital assistant two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools and data relays.

Apparatus and methods of executable instruction authorization on the wireless device may include scanning collecting reporting deleting disabling and restoring activities. Furthermore the apparatus and methods may include tracking monitoring the usage of wireless device resources to determine if the operation of any executable instruction comprise unauthorized acts as defined by authorization configuration . Such unauthorized activities may include but are not limited to attempting to read write from to a predetermined memory location reading writing from to a predetermined memory location deleting another program data and attempting to and or accessing to predetermined resources such as an attempt to transmit data via the communications module . The tracking monitoring parameters are user configurable and may be downloaded from a user manager.

Activities performed by the herein described apparatus and methods may be performed on any form of wireless device or computer module including a wired or wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

Wireless device may also include input mechanism for generating inputs into wireless device and output mechanism for relaying information to the user of the wireless device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display and a voice recognition module while output mechanism may include but is not limited to a display an audio speaker and a haptic feedback mechanism.

Computer platform may be operable to transmit data across wireless network receive and execute software applications and to display data transmitted from user manager or another computer device connected to wireless network . Computer platform may also include a memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. Additionally memory may store executable instructions as well as device type information such as one or more of a make model manufacturer version etc. of the type of wireless device .

Further computer platform may include a processing engine which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processing engine is operable to execute an application programming interface API layer that may interface with any resident programs such as executable instruction authorization module stored in memory of the wireless device . In one aspect API is a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processing engine includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware software firmware executable instructions data and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of wireless device and the operability of the wireless device on wireless network . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In one aspect such as in a cellular telephone processing engine may include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer layer layer main control remote procedure handset power management diagnostic digital signal processor vocoder messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position determination position engine user interface sleep limited services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform . For example processing subsystems may include any subsystem components that receive data reads and data writes from API on behalf of the resident executable instruction authorization module . Further at least a portion of information relating to executable instruction gathered and logged in log may be available from these subsystems .

Computer platform may further include a communications module embodied in hardware software executable instructions data and combinations thereof operable to enable communications among the various components of the wireless device and wireless network . Communications module may comprise any component port interface that may include any point of entry into and or any point of exit from wireless device. As such communications module may include interface components for hardwired communications and for wireless communications.

Computer platform further includes executable instruction authorization module which is operable based on authorization configuration file and may be loaded into memory by various mechanisms including but not limited to being generated by any computer device connected to wireless network such as user manager locally transmitted to the wireless device such as by a manual input from a user using input mechanism and or through transmission from a locally connected media reader and having been loaded on the wireless device at the time of manufacture. Further executable instruction authorization module may comprise an authorization module identification ID such as one or more of a name a version etc. that identifies the particular configuration of the given authorization module.

As disclosed above authorization logic of executable instruction authorization module may be operable to collect store and provide access to or forward to other devices selected information relating to executable instructions based on authorization configuration . Furthermore executable instruction authorization module may be loaded onto the wireless device during the initial assembly process downloaded from a device on wireless network or loaded via direct connections during a configuration process.

As disclosed authorization schema may comprise an identification of authorized executable instructions and or unauthorized executable instructions . For example authorized executable instructions and or unauthorized executable instructions may include some reference or identification of at least a portion of executable instructions that have been deemed authorized and or unauthorized respectively such as by a party having control over memory of wireless device such as a network service provider. In one aspect for example authorization schema may include a signature comprising data relating to executable instructions including but not limited to at least one of application file name version size date time created and creator if any. For example authorized executable instructions may include a set of applications files and or data having embedded executable instructions all of which are authorized for use on wireless device such as operating system software application specific software and macro imbedded data files. In contrast unauthorized executable instructions which may be referred to as a virus may include a set of applications instruction imbedded files and or data having embedded executable instruction all of which are not authorized for use on wireless device such as known viruses and known incompatible application specific software. It should be noted however that applications defined as a virus on one network or on a particular wireless device may be considered authorized or approved by another set of network carrier and or wireless device. For instance an application may require a certain amount of memory and certain hardware components such as a camera a large screen a global positioning system GPS receiver which may not be available on a user s device. Such a program may be authorized on one wireless device having the system requirements but may be defined as a virus on a non compliant device to avoid wasting limited resources.

In another aspect authorization schema may include but is not limited to instructions relating to predetermined authorization tests and predetermined authorization test results. For example these tests and results include a redundancy check including a checksum parity bits check digits longitudinal redundancy check cyclic redundancy check CRC horizontal redundancy check vertical redundancy check cryptographic message digest Fletcher s checksum and Adler 32 testing for a predetermined value at a predetermined location within executable instructions where any attempt to conceal malicious or otherwise unauthorized executable instructions would be discovered by a check on the predetermined location and testing for a predetermined result of applying a predetermined function to all or a portion of the data and or the code contained within executable instructions . Data extracted from the scanned file and or authorization test results obtained from applying the above predetermined authorization tests may then compared to predetermined values and or predetermined results respectively stored remotely such as in executable instruction control module or locally such as in the authorization schema to determine whether or not the given executable instructions are authorized.

In another aspect authorization schema may include monitoring instructions relating to monitoring the operations of executable instructions such as monitoring predetermined wireless device resources including memory and peripherals attempting to be or being utilized by the executable instructions. For example the authorization schema may monitor the resource utilization of all operating applications with configurable parameters indicating memory locations processing subsystems memory utilization and allowable or unallowable activities such as overwriting applications and reading and writing to predetermined areas of memory.

As disclosed relative to the discussion of the authorization configuration comprises parameters used by the authorization logic to perform the operations disclosed herein.

Tracking parameter may be operative to determine when to scan the memory . For example tracking parameter may instruct logic to scan memory periodically when new executable instructions are downloaded when executable instructions are in operation and when existing information is deleted.

In addition tracking parameter may determine where to store log for example in memory or another memory device connectable to the wireless device or accessible to the wireless device over the wireless network . In addition tracking parameter may determine whether the entire memory is scanned or just predetermined portions of the memory such as executable instructions that are active that are currently being downloaded and or that were downloaded within a past user system configured period.

Furthermore tracking parameter may control which portions of executable instruction is deemed to be a virus and is therefore logged as unauthorized executable instruction information .

Referring to for example information log may comprise a record of unauthorized executable instruction information which may include but is not limited to application information such as the application name application version date and time created and the creator of the application and data file information such as relating to data files that may contain executable instructions may include file size file version and date time created and at least some executable instruction portion . Further information log may include action record of actions taken by authorization module as is discussed below in more detail. Finally information log may include device configuration information such as one or a combination of authorization module ID and or configuration ID and wireless device information such as hardware and software information for example information identifying the model of the device the resident hardware the resident software the state of selected hardware and or software components etc. and generally any information that may be useful in troubleshooting or determining a diagnostic status of wireless device .

In addition tracking parameter may control the monitoring of running applications e.g. the actions being requested and or performed by any executable instructions. Non limiting application monitoring may be configured for example to occur periodically on a predetermined schedule within a predefined period after initial loading based on a predetermined event such as running an application and on an ongoing basis.

Reporting parameter may configure executable instruction authorization module to selectively transmit log to executable instruction control module across wireless network . The timing of log transmission is non limiting and may be transmitted at a predetermined time a predetermined interval and on the occurrence of predetermined events such as upon downloading of executable instructions establishing a communication channel with communications network and upon determination of a virus or suspect executable instructions. Further reporting parameter may determine whom to allow local access to log thereby allowing a remote device such as the user manager to access memory and retrieve log directly.

In one aspect log is transmitted over an open communication connection between the wireless device and the wireless network piggybacking on an ongoing voice or data call across an open connection. Alternatively in a cellular network configuration the log may be transmitted to executable instruction control module through short message service SMS . Furthermore as noted above an alternate aspect of the user manager module may pull the log from the wireless device across the network on a scheduled or ad hoc basis.

Action parameter may instruct logic on how and when to disable delete restore or otherwise act upon executable instructions identified as unauthorized. For example deleting executable instructions may be accomplished by physically deleting the executable instructions from memory while disabling executable instructions may be accomplished by altering some portion of executable instructions to prevent its operation on wireless device . Although deleted executable instructions may or may not be restored one aspect of system may allow disabled executable instructions to be recovered by an appropriate setting of action parameter and or by an appropriate control command transmitted from the user manager or operator .

Action parameter may be operable to instruct logic to act upon unauthorized executable instructions without further communications commands from a remote source. For example in one aspect where authorization schema has locally determined that downloaded executable instructions is either not identifiable as authorized executable instruction or is identifiable as unauthorized executable instruction i.e. an instruction that contains a virus or is otherwise unauthorized action parameter may identify a corresponding action to take by the executable instruction authorization module . In this scenario for example based on action parameter authorization module may delete or disable the given executable instruction and the action taken may be logged as an action record in log .

Additionally authorization configuration may include a configuration identification ID such as one or more of a name a version etc. which identifies the given set of parameters associated with the given configuration.

Executable instruction authorization module further includes wireless device control module which under control of authorization logic is operable to execute on the wireless device a locally or remotely generated control command . Wireless device control module may have the same components and or functionality as a user manager device control module and as will be explained in more detail below the wireless device control module may request verification and or authorization of a control command before its execution.

For example control command may be any executable operation on wireless device related to handling executable instructions identified as unauthorized executable instructions. For example control command may include but is not limited to the operations of deleting disabling and or restoring executable instructions. Control command may comprise actions similar to those discussed above with regard to action parameter which essentially may be a predetermined or preprogrammed control command . In general the control command is issued based upon a review of executable instructions identified by executable instruction authorization module as being unauthorized which may be executable instructions directly identifiable as unauthorized executable instructions and or which may be executable instructions that are not identifiable as authorized executable instructions . Based upon an inspection such as by operator of the information relating to executable instructions reported in log a determination of the status of the logged executable instructions may be made and control command issued to delete disable or restore the executable instructions on the wireless device . It should be noted that other control commands may be utilized depending on the given scenario.

Further executable instruction authorization module may include a limited service configuration operable to establish a limited access communications channel across the wireless network which in one aspect is generally not available to the end user of wireless device . For example the limited access communications channel may be used for transmitting log or for receiving control command . Further in the case when communications from wireless device have otherwise been disabled the limited access communications channel may allow emergency calls to an operator or other designated party. The identification and set up of the limited access communications channel is based on a limited service setting . Limited service setting may identify the type of communications that are allowed and may identify the associated communication channels that can be utilized. Limited service configuration may be received over the wireless network may be locally transferred to wireless device such as through a serial connection or may be preloaded on the wireless device .

Referring back to user manager may comprise at least one of any type of server personal computer mini computer mainframe computer or any computing device either special purpose or general computing device. Further there can be separate servers or computer devices associated with user manager that work in concert to provide data in usable formats to parties and or to provide a separate layer of control in the data flow between the wireless devices and user manager . User manager or plurality of servers can send software agents or applications such as the executable instruction authorization module to wireless device across wireless network such that the wireless device returns information from its resident applications and subsystems .

User manager comprises executable instruction control module which may further include software hardware data and generally any executable instructions operable to analyze and authorize executable instructions on wireless device . Furthermore executable instruction control module may be operable to download all or a portion of executable instruction authorization module to a wireless device . Further executable instruction control module may include authorization logic which is executable to generate authorization configuration and manage the collection and analysis of log from wireless device . As previously disclosed executable instruction control module may pull the log based on commands from an authorized user such as operator or the log may be pushed from the wireless device .

Referring to an aspect of an executable instruction control module may include configuration generator module that includes hardware software firmware executable instructions data and or any other associated logic that allows the configuration generator module to generate authorization configuration . In one aspect configuration generator module may be operable to execute authorization logic that assembles the various components of a given authorization configuration based on selections from a number of parameters. For example parameters that make up authorization configuration may vary depending on the type make model of the wireless device and or the network service provider. As such configuration logic may provide a user with the ability to select from a menu of a plurality of wireless device types models and a plurality of network service providers in order to generate an appropriate menu from which to select the parameters of authorization configuration .

Similarly there may be one or more of each type of parameter comprising authorization configuration . For example configuration logic may provide a user with the ability to select from a menu of at least one of a plurality of authorization schemas a plurality of tracking parameters a plurality of reporting parameters a plurality of control command parameters and a plurality of predetermined authorization result values . Alternatively rather than selecting the various parameters individually configuration logic may provide the user with the ability to select from a menu of a plurality of predetermined authorization configurations which include predetermined groupings of the above noted parameters that comprise authorization configuration .

Further in one aspect the selected one of the plurality of wireless device types models and the selected one of the plurality of network service providers may be correlated to a given one of a plurality of types of executable instructions such as application files and data files and or a predetermined set of authorization parameters that are appropriate for a particular wireless device . For example for an XYZ brand of wireless device operating on ABC wireless service provider configuration logic may be able to determine which executable instructions the wireless device should have installed and thus may generate authorization configuration that includes the appropriate set of corresponding parameters.

Once the specific parameters of a given configuration are determined then configuration logic may assign unique configuration ID to the given configuration and may store this configuration in a library for later recall such as among plurality of predetermined authorization configurations . Further configuration logic and or another component of executable instruction control module may be operable to transmit authorization configuration to one or more wireless devices to initiate the monitoring and authorization of executable instructions on that device.

Executable instruction control module may include information repository for storing logs received from wireless device based on executing authorization configuration . Information repository may include any type of memory or storage device.

Executable instruction control module may comprise analyzer operable to analyze logs and generate a wireless device executable instruction analysis report viewable by operator . Analyzer may further include hardware and analysis logic such as decision making routines statistical programs and combinations thereof for analyzing and interpreting logs . Furthermore in addition to making the full analysis report available to an authorized user the executable instruction control module may be operable to generate an E mail comprising a message including portions of report to a device such as the operator communication device .

Referring to the executable instruction control module may comprise a user manager device control module operable by execution of control logic to receive generate control command either locally or remotely and either execute control command on wireless device or transmit control command to wireless device . In one aspect for example control command may contain an operator or user identification ID and a control activity . Operator ID may be some manner of identifying the originator of control command i.e. operator . For example operator ID may be a name a number a digital signature a hash or any other type of data or value that may be associated with a party. Further operator ID may not be explicitly contained in the control command but rather may be derived from the origin of control command .

Control activity may be the operation to be performed on wireless device by executable instruction authorization module through executing control command . As mentioned above these operations may include downloading authorization configuration deleting executable instructions disabling executable instructions and restoring disabled executable instructions. Before executing or forwarding the control command user manager device control module may execute permission logic to verify an intent to perform the action as well as to determine the authenticity or authority of the user issuing control command . For example a verification may be obtained in response to a prompt to user manager operator and or whomever issued the command to confirm whether the issuer actually wishes to execute control activity on wireless device . Further for example to determine an authorization permission logic may parse operator ID and control activity from control command and utilize a database of a plurality of user IDs correlated with a plurality of control permissions and correlated with a plurality of wireless device identifications IDs . Thus based upon whether verification is received and or whether proper authorization is found device control module generates a permission decision which determines whether or not to execute the given control command .

Control permissions may identify one or more authorized control activities for a given operator ID and or wireless device IDs . For instance certain operators may be restricted to certain control activities or to being able to control certain wireless devices. It should be noted however that the plurality of operator IDs the plurality of control permissions and the plurality of wireless device identifications IDs may be correlated in any manner. For example control command may contain a user ID of an operator and a control activity of disable executable instructions for a particular one of the plurality of wireless device identifications . Permission logic searches the database of control permissions and user IDs to determine if the operator was permitted to disable executable instructions on the given wireless device .

The actual location of the disclosed components of the executable instruction control module is non limiting and may be physically located on a server or other device connected to wireless network .

Referring to an aspect of an operator communication device staffed by an operator to review authorization report and approve unauthorized wireless executable instructions . Executable instructions not approved by operator may be treated as a virus.

Operator communications device may comprise an input mechanism and an output mechanism interconnected to a computer platform . The input mechanism and the output mechanism may be similar to their respective counterparts on wireless device . The operator computer platform may further comprise a memory for storing applications and data files a processing engine and a communications module operable to transmit and receive messages and data between the operator position the user manager wireless device as well as any network component on wireless network .

Memory may comprise an operator control module made executable by processing engine . As the number of operator communication devices and the number of operators are non limiting an operator identification ID parameter may be entered into memory by operator and may be operable to identify the operator of the operator communication device to network components including the user manager and the wireless device .

The operator control module may further include authorization logic operable in conjunction with Graphic User Interface GUI logic input mechanism and output mechanism to guide the operator through any analysis and command activity selection and transmission. The GUI logic may control for example e mail communication report presentation as well providing a menu for selecting and transmitting any control command to the user manager and wireless device .

Although the operator of operator communication device may be a person as represented by operator in the aspect of operator may be a computing device comprising hardware software executable instructions data and combinations thereof for analyzing and responding to report or to an external communication such as from the user of the wireless device . Such software may include algorithms decision making routines statistical programs etc. for analyzing and interpreting report . Further as with the executable instruction control module the operator communication device as well as the computing device associated with operator may reside on any network device of wireless network such as on user manager another server connected to the network or even on a wireless device .

Wireless network includes any communications network operable at least in part for enabling wireless communications between wireless device and any other device connected to wireless network . Further wireless network may include all network components and all connected devices that form the network. For example wireless network may include at least one or any combination of a cellular telephone network as embodied in a terrestrial telephone network a satellite telephone network an infrared network such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA based network a short range wireless network a Bluetooth technology network a ZigBee protocol network an ultra wide band UWB protocol network a home radio frequency HomeRF network a shared wireless access protocol SWAP network a wideband network such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA network a wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance network and a 802.11 network a public switched telephone network a public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet a private communications network and land mobile radio network.

Suitable examples of telephone networks include at least one or any combination of analog and digital networks technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS advanced mobile phone service AMPS time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA global system for mobile communications GSM single carrier 1X radio transmission technology RTT evolution data only EV DO technology general packet radio service GPRS enhanced data GSM environment EDGE high speed downlink data packet access HSPDA analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in at least one of a wireless communications network and a data communications network.

Referring to an aspect of a cellular wireless network comprises at one wireless device and a cellular telephone wireless network connected to a wired network via a carrier network . Cellular telephone system is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules such as wireless devices communicate packets including voice and data over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers.

According to system user manager module may communicate over a wired network e.g. a local area network LAN with data repository for storing authorization information such as the data logs gathered from the wireless device . Further a data management server may be in communication with user manager module to provide post processing capabilities data flow control etc. User manager module data repository and data management server may be present on the cellular telephone system along with any other network components needed to provide cellular telecommunication services.

User manager module and or data management server may communicate with carrier network through data links and such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . Further carrier network communicates with MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain old telephone service . Typically in network a network or Internet portion transfers data and the POTS portion transfers voice information. MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS by another network such as a data network and or Internet portion for data transfer and a POTS portion for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless devices such as wireless device by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods.

Referring to an aspect of a method for scanning and authorizing executable instructions on a wireless device includes at step obtaining an executable instruction authorization module. In one aspect obtaining includes loading at least a portion of executable instruction authorization module on a computer platform of a wireless device . For example the executable instruction authorization module may be provided during the manufacture of the device . Alternatively the executable instruction authorization module may be pushed by a executable instruction control module to the wireless device or pulled from a executable instruction control module by the wireless device across a wireless network depending for example on whether or not the wireless device has the latest version of the executable instruction authorization module for the respective wireless device . In another alternative the pushing or pulling of the executable instruction authorization module to the wireless device may be configurable in any manner for example being initiated by a predetermined event.

Once the executable instruction authorization module has been obtained by wireless device at least a portion of authorization configuration may be obtained at step . For example authorization configuration may be loaded into memory . Authorization configuration may be provided during the manufacture of the device may be pushed by a executable instruction control module to the wireless device or may be pulled from a executable instruction control module by the wireless device across a wireless network . The obtaining of authorization configuration may be initiated in any manner for example being initiated by a predetermined event such as upon activation upon power up of the device upon receiving new executable instructions and a upon predetermined schedule and or interval.

Further at step the authorization logic may parse the authorization configuration to determine operating parameters including tracking parameter reporting parameter action parameter and authorization schema as discussed in detail above.

At step the authorization logic may run as a background process scanning and analyzing downloaded executable instructions based upon the parsed parameters of the authorization configuration .

Optionally at step depending upon action parameter the executable instruction authorization module may be operable to automatically execute a function on executable instructions identified as unauthorized. For example action parameter may include definitions of unauthorized executable instructions and corresponding definitions of actions to take in the event of detection of the unauthorized executable instructions. For instance embodiments of action parameters may include automatically deleting or disabling the executable instructions considered to be suspect or unauthorized based upon the application of the authorization schema .

At step the method includes forwarding log for analysis. For example embodiments may include executable instruction authorization module based upon reporting parameter forwarding the log to a remote device for further analysis. In one aspect for example log may be uploaded from wireless device to executable instruction control module . Such an uploading mechanism may include a standard HTTP an FTP or other data transfer protocol. In other aspects the log may be transferred from the wireless device using any communication means or connection to which the wireless device has access.

At step the method may further include receiving optionally verifying and or authorizing and executing a control command. For example wireless device control module may execute the command immediately or wireless device control module may query the source of control command to verify the control command before executing it. In another example the device control module may utilize permission logic to check user ID and or control activity associated with control command against a permissions database to determine an authorization for the control command thereby formulating permission decision . In yet another alternative device control module may request user manager to operate user manager device control module to verify and or authorize control command . Optionally the executable instruction authorization module may log the action taken and transmit a message to the user manager and or the operator indicating the success or failure of the requested action.

Referring to an example of a method that provides for remote authorization of executable instructions on wireless device comprises at step forwarding a executable instruction authorization module to manage the executable instruction authorization functionality described herein. In one option executable instruction authorization module is installed into the device memory at the time of manufacture. In another option because wireless device may not have a executable instruction authorization module pre installed in memory a device such as user manager may forward executable instruction authorization module to wireless device through mechanisms such as a wired connection or over an air interface using standard protocols such as HTTP FTP or some other data transfer protocol.

Furthermore at step the method includes generating and forwarding an authorization configuration to the wireless device . In one aspect a user such as a technician or operator may access executable instruction control module and execute configuration generator module to generate authorization configuration for a given wireless device . For example the given wireless device may not have an authorization configuration or the existing configuration on the wireless device may require updating or replacement. In any case configuration generator module may utilize configuration logic to determine and or customize the various parameters that comprise authorization configuration and these parameters may vary depending on the type make model of the wireless device the actual network service provider and the type of executable instructions .

As such in some embodiments executable instruction control module may transmit authorization configuration across wireless network to wireless device . In another aspect authorization configuration may be forwarded through a static or serial connection to wireless device or may be preloaded on wireless device during the manufacture of the wireless device .

Further method may include receiving at step log from wireless device . For example embodiments include executable instruction control module receiving log generated at step of the method embodied in . In another aspect log may be received whole or in pieces and assembled by executable instruction control module . In one aspect executable instruction control module may receive log over wireless network whereas another aspect may have the executable instruction control module receive log through a static or serial connection to the wireless device or from some other computer device or storage media in communication with user manager and wireless device .

Further this aspect of method may include analyzing at step log information and generating at step an authorization report based upon that analysis. At step the user manager module may transmit the report to a user such as operator for further analysis and action. Log analysis may be performed by analyzer and may be based upon a authorization schema similar to the authorization schema disclosed as part of authorization configuration . Report may include any form of output that represents analysis of log and other information contained in the information repository as well as any other associated information such as reports of viruses proper executable instruction versions for the wireless device shut down times for improper executable instruction versions etc.

Although executable instruction control module may generate report module and its corresponding components may be operable to present a ready view of executable instruction authorization related information collected from the wireless devices in any form such as tables maps graphics views plain text interactive programs or web pages or any other display or presentation of the data. For example executable instruction control module may present executable instruction authorization related information on a monitor or display device and or may transmit this information such as via electronic mail to another computer device for further analysis or review through such mechanisms as through a standard HTTP HTTPS an FTP or some other data transfer protocol.

The executable instruction control module may be operable to change the authorization configuration on the wireless device and or send a control command to be executed on the respective wireless device based upon the results of analyzer without further analysis or authorization by an operator . Alternatively the user manager may be configured so as not to take independent action on any executable instructions determined to be unauthorized without approval from another source such as that provided by an approved operator .

In one aspect at step the method includes providing access to the report. For example executable instruction control module may transmit report to computer device for review by operator . Based on report operator may execute an action such as sending a control command to the executable instruction control module to delete or otherwise disable the executable instructions on the wireless device .

Optionally at step the method may include receiving processing and logging the control command before forwarding the command to the respective wireless device .

Optionally step may include verifying a control command such as that received from operator and executable on a wireless device to delete executable instructions . User manager control module may execute permission logic to make permission decision as to whether or not to transmit control command to the respective wireless device .

Alternatively the operator under control of operator control module and communications module may transmit the control command directly to the wireless device thereby minimizing message traffic between network components.

As deletion of executable instructions may be permanent the user manger module may at step receive a request for verification authorization of command from the wireless device prior to the execution of control command . Based upon permission logic plurality of control permission plurality of user ID and plurality of wireless devices ID the unit manager module may at step transmit a verification authorization message to the wireless device .

Thus the described aspects allow a party such as a wireless network service provider and a wireless device manufacturer to maintain the presence or operability of authorized executable instructions on a wireless device.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or aspects it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or aspects as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or aspect may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or aspect unless stated otherwise.

