---

title: Method and apparatus for producing synthesis gas
abstract: A method and apparatus for reacting a hydrocarbon containing feed stream by steam methane reforming reactions to form a synthesis gas. The hydrocarbon containing feed is reacted within a reactor having stages in which the final stage from which a synthesis gas is discharged incorporates expensive high temperature materials such as oxide dispersed strengthened metals while upstream stages operate at a lower temperature allowing the use of more conventional high temperature alloys. Each of the reactor stages incorporate reactor elements having one or more separation zones to separate oxygen from an oxygen containing feed to support combustion of a fuel within adjacent combustion zones, thereby to generate heat to support the endothermic steam methane reforming reactions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07686856&OS=07686856&RS=07686856
owner: Praxair Technology, Inc.
number: 07686856
owner_city: Danbury CT
owner_country: unknown
publication_date: 20060619
---
This invention was made with United States Government support under Cooperative Agreement number DE FC26 01NT41096 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy National Energy Technology Laboratory. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for producing a synthesis gas in which a hydrocarbon containing stream and steam are reacted by steam methane reforming reactions conducted in reaction stages to produce the synthesis gas and the temperature within each of the reaction stages is controlled to minimize the use of expensive high temperature alloys. More particularly the present invention relates to such a method and apparatus in which the reaction stages are heated by oxy fuel combustion involving the use of oxygen transport membranes to supply the oxygen. Even more particularly the present invention relates to such a method and apparatus in which each of the reaction stages employs oxygen transport membrane elements formed of flat plates to separate the oxygen.

Synthesis gases containing hydrogen and carbon monoxide can be purified to produce hydrogen and carbon monoxide products. Additionally synthesis gas can also be reacted to provide useful chemical composition such as methanol and as a feed to Fischer Tropsch processes for the production of liquid fuels.

Typically synthesis gas is produced by steam methane reforming reactions that are conducted by reacting steam and a hydrocarbon containing fuel in the presence of a catalyst to promote the reforming reaction. Since the reaction is endothermic heat is supplied to sustain the reaction. Steam methane reformers are large complex devices in which a fuel is combusted in the presence of air in order to supply the endothermic heating requirements.

The use of oxygen transport membranes to supply oxygen within reforming reactions has also been proposed in the prior art. The advantage of such a reformer is that the oxy fuel combustion can be conducted more compactly than air fired combustion and the oxygen is not generated in a separate plant such as one that employs cryogenic rectification. Moreover the combustion products are principally carbon dioxide and water. The carbon dioxide can be sequestered for its collection or further use as a value added product.

Oxygen transport membranes employ airtight ceramic materials typically perovskites that exhibit oxygen ion conductivity at an elevated temperature and upon a driving force of an oxygen partial pressure differential on opposite sides of the membrane. In such a device an oxygen containing feed for instance air is contacted on one side of the membrane often referred to as the cathode side. The oxygen ionizes by gaining electrons. The electrons are transported through the membrane material for such purposes. The oxygen ions are transported through the membrane material in a direction opposite to the electrons and emerge at the opposite side of the membrane that is conventionally referred to as the anode side. At the anode side the oxygen recombines to produce the electrons that are to be transported through the membrane.

An example of the use of an oxygen transport membrane for the production of synthesis gas can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 6 077 323 in which an oxygen transport membrane is employed to separate oxygen from the air to produce oxygen within a reactant section. The permeated oxygen reacts with hydrocarbons within a natural gas and steam containing feed to supply heat to support the steam methane reforming reactions. Such a reactor is consequently known as an autothermal reformer.

The use of oxygen transport membranes within high temperature environments is problematical because the membrane tends to degrade over time and fail. In order to achieve sufficient oxygen flux the oxygen transport membrane employs a thin dense layer that is supported on one or more porous layers. All layers are typically formed of ceramic materials. One problem that has been found to effect longevity is the fact that over time the ceramic support will fail by the known action of creep.

Both U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 938 822 and 6 200 541 disclose the use of a metal support layer. The use of a metal support layer is particularly advantageous in that it helps solve yet another problem involving mounting the ion transport element while sealing the element to its mounting for instance a tubesheet of a reactor. Metals while not being brittle are also subject to creep at high temperatures. Additionally in the pure oxygen and highly oxidative environment in which oxygen ion transport elements operate metals also suffer failure due to oxidation.

In order to overcome durability limitations with respect to oxygen transport materials it has been proposed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 695 983 to use the oxygen transport membrane at a lower temperature and as an initial stage of the generation of synthesis gas. Thereafter in a conventional fired reformer located downstream of the oxygen transport membrane reactor the remainder of the hydrocarbons are reacted with steam to produce the synthesis gas product.

In another attempt to make more durable oxygen transport membrane elements for use in reactors high temperature alloys have been proposed such as oxide dispersed strengthened metals. As disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. 2005 0061633 a composite oxygen ion transport element is disclosed that has a dense layer applied to a support layer having pores of cylindrical configuration. Additionally a porous layer can be interposed between the dense layer and the support layer to distribute oxygen permeating through the dense layer to the pores of the support layer. The support layer is formed of the oxide dispersed strengthened metal. The problem with the use of such materials within reactors is that they are very expensive.

As will be discussed the present invention provides a method and apparatus for producing synthesis gas in a reactor that allows the use of expensive high temperature alloys such as oxide dispersed strengthened metal to be utilized in a cost effective manner and that employs robust planar elements that have a wide applicability to any type of device utilizing an oxygen transport membrane.

The present invention provides a method of producing a synthesis gas product stream containing hydrogen and carbon monoxide. In accordance with the method at least one hydrocarbon is reacted with steam in steam methane reforming reactions conducted within separate reaction stages to produce the synthesis gas product stream. The reaction stages contain catalytic reaction zones within which the steam methane reforming reactions are conducted combustion zones located adjacent to the reaction zones separation zones located adjacent to the combustion zones and oxygen transport membrane elements located between the separation zones and the combustion zones. A fuel is combusted within the combustion zones so that heat is provided to support endothermic heating requirements of the steam methane reforming reactions and operational temperature requirements of the oxygen transport membrane elements. An oxygen containing gas is introduced into the separation zones and the oxygen is separated from the oxygen containing gas by oxygen ion transport occurring within the oxygen transport membrane elements. This provides the oxygen to support the combustion of the fuel within the combustion zones.

Intermediate product streams produced through the steam methane reforming reactions are sequentially passed through the reaction stages. The synthesis gas product stream is discharged from a final of the reaction stages.

The temperature within each of the reaction stages is controlled by providing a sufficient number of the reaction stages so that at least the final of the reaction stages operates at a temperature range of between about 900 C. and about 1100 C. and at least one of the reaction stages located upstream of the at least final reaction stage has an operational temperature that is less than the temperature range due to the consumption of the heat in the endothermic reactions occurring within the at least one of the reaction stages. This allows the use of the high temperature alloys within the final reaction stage or stages and less expensive materials within stages located upstream of the final stage or stages. Advantageously either the fuel streams containing the fuel can be separately metered into the combustion zones of each of the reaction stages and or the oxygen containing streams containing the oxygen containing gas can be separately metered into the separation zones of each of the reactions stages. The metering or control of the fuel or the oxygen allows a further degree of control to be exercised over the temperature distribution within the reaction stages to allow for the degree of conversion taking place within each of the reaction stages to be maximized within temperature constraints of the materials being used in each of the stages.

The combustion zones can be connected in series so that an exhaust stream comprising carbon dioxide water and unburned fuel is discharged from a last of the combustion zones directly adjacent and opposite to the final of the reaction zones. The exhaust stream is introduced into an oxygen transport membrane combustor to combust the unburned fuel and thereby to produce a carbon dioxide and water containing stream containing additional carbon dioxide and additional water from the combustion of the unburned fuel. The carbon dioxide and water containing stream can then be cooled to condense the water and the water can be separated from the carbon dioxide and water containing stream to produce a carbon dioxide stream. The carbon dioxide can be separated from the carbon dioxide stream to produce a carbon dioxide product stream.

The synthesis gas stream can be cooled to condense a water content of the synthesis gas stream. The water content can be removed from the synthesis gas stream after having been cooled. Hydrogen can be separated from the synthesis gas stream after the water content has been removed to provide a hydrogen product stream and a tail gas stream. The tail gas stream can be utilized as part of the fuel.

The synthesis gas stream can be further subjected to a water gas shift reaction to increase the hydrogen content thereof after having been partly cooled.

The oxygen containing gas after having passed through the separation zones can be collected to form a first retentate stream. A subsidiary oxygen containing stream can be introduced into the oxygen transport membrane combustor to form a second retentate stream. The first and second retentate streams are introduced into a combustor to generate a heated stream. The heated stream is subdivided to produce subsidiary heated stream that directly transfers heat to the reactant stream the tail gas stream and part of the oxygen containing stream.

In another aspect the present invention provides a reactor for conducting a steam methane reforming reaction. The reactor comprises a plurality of separate reaction stages to conduct steam methane reforming reactions thereby to produce the synthesis gas product stream. The reaction stages contain reactor elements that define catalytic reactions zones within which the steam methane reforming reactions are conducted combustion zones located adjacent to the reaction zones for combusting a fuel separation zones located adjacent to the combustion zones for passage of an oxygen containing gas and oxygen transport membrane elements located between the separation zones and the combustion zones for separating oxygen from the oxygen containing gas. The use of the oxygen transport membrane elements supplies the oxygen to the combustion zones to support the combustion of the fuel. The combustion of the fuel supplies heat to support the endothermic heating requirements of the steam methane reforming reactions that are to be conducted within the reaction zones and to maintain the oxygen transport membrane elements at an operational temperature. The reaction stages are connected in series so that intermediate product streams produced through the steam methane reforming reactions sequentially passes through the reaction stages. The synthesis gas product stream is discharged from a final of the reaction stages.

The reactor elements that are employed in at least the final of the reaction stages are fabricated from a higher temperature material capable of maintaining structural integrity within a temperature range of between about 900 C. and about 1100 C. The reactor elements employed in at least one of the reaction stages located upstream of the at least final reaction stage are fabricated from a lower temperature material capable of maintaining structural integrity below the temperature range but not within the temperature range.

At least one of intermediate fuel inlets and intermediate oxygen containing gas inlets can be located between reaction stages for metering fuel flow rate of the fuel introduced into the combustion zone of each of the reaction stages or for separately metering gas flow rate of the oxygen containing gas introduced into the separation zones of each of the reaction stages respectively for further controlling temperature in each of the reaction stages.

As will be discussed the higher temperature material can be an oxide dispersed strengthened metal and the lower temperature material can be a high temperature alloy.

Each of the reaction stages can include a housing having a chamber an oxygen containing gas inlet a retentate outlet a fuel gas inlet an exhaust a reactant inlet a reactant outlet and at least one of the reactor elements located within the reactor chamber containing at least one of the reaction zones and at least one of the combustion zones. The reactor element can be formed of at least three spaced parallel planar members to form the at least one of the combustion zones between a first planar member and a second planar member of the at least three planer members. The reactor element communicates between the fuel gas inlet and the exhaust. At least one of the reaction zones is provided between the second planar member and a third of the at least three spaced planar members and communicates between the reactant inlet and the reactant outlet and a set of supports separating the at least three parallel planar members. At least one of the separation zones is defined by part of the chamber and separated from the at least one combustion zone by the first planar member. The first planar member has spaced arrays of openings and regions of oxygen transport membrane material located on the at least one planar member and registry with the openings and within the at least one of the separation zones. This forms the oxygen transport membrane elements.

Preferably a fourth planar member can be located adjacent to and spaced from the third planar member so that two of the combustion zones are located between the first and the second of the planar members and between the third planar member and the fourth planar member. The fourth planar member can have the same configuration as the first planar member and with further regions of oxygen transport membrane material located on the fourth planar member and in registry with the arrays of openings defined in the fourth planar member. This thereby forms two oxygen transport membrane elements by the first of the planar members and the fourth planar member. Two of the separation zones are formed within the chamber and are separated from the two combustion zones by the first planar member and the fourth planar member.

The first planar member the second planar member the third planar member and the fourth planar member can be retained within a rectangular frame. The second planar member and the third planar member can be connected at a first set of opposed edges thereof to a pair of opposed transverse members of the rectangular frame and sealed along a first set of lengthwise edges to form a tube of a rectangular cross section. The pair of opposed transverse members have openings and communication with the reactant gas inlet and the reactant gas outlet. The first planar member and the fourth planar member can be retained along the second set of the opposed edges within slots of the opposed transverse member and sealed along lengthwise edges by elongated headers having openings and communication with the fuel gas inlet and the flue gas outlet. The supports can constitute pillar like projections inherently formed with the first planar member the second planar member the third planar member and the fourth planar member.

The four spaced parallel planar members and the pillar like projections thereof that are utilized within the at least the final of the reaction stages can be formed from the higher temperature material and the higher temperature material can be the oxide dispersed strengthened metal. The four spaced parallel planar members located within the at least one of the reaction stages and the pillar like projections thereof located upstream of the at least final reaction stage can be fabricated from the lower temperature material and such lower temperature material can be a high temperature alloy.

In a further aspect the present invention provides a reactor for conducting any type of catalyzed reaction that is endothermic and therefore requires heat to support the reaction. In this aspect of the present invention the reactor includes a housing having a chamber an oxygen containing gas inlet a retentate outlet a fuel gas inlet an exhaust a reactant inlet a reactant outlet and at least one reactor element located within the chamber. The reactor element contains a reaction zone having a catalyst to promote the catalyzed reaction and two combustion zones.

The at least one reactor element is formed of four spaced parallel planar members to define the two combustion zones between a first planar member and a second planar member and between the third planar member and the fourth planar member of the four planar members. The two combustion zones communicate between the fuel gas inlet and the exhaust. The reaction zone is defined between the second planar member and a third planar member. The reaction zone communicates between the reactant inlet and the reactant outlet. A set of supports integrally formed with each of the first planar member the second planar member the third planar member and the fourth planar member separating the four planar members.

At least two opposed separation zones are defined by part of the chamber and separated from one of the two combustion zones by the first planar member and the other of the two combustion zones by the fourth planar member. Each of the first planar member and the second planar member having spaced arrays of openings and regions of oxygen transport membrane material located on said first planar member and the second planar member in registry with said openings and within the at least one of the separation zones thereby to form an oxygen transport membrane element to separate oxygen from an oxygen containing gas introduced into the separation zones. The separated oxygen provides the oxygen to the combustion zones to support the combustion of the fuel and to generate heat for the catalyzed reaction and the operational temperature requirements for the oxygen transport membrane materials.

As in the steam methane reformer reactor discussed above the first planar member the second planar member the third planar member and the fourth planar member can be retained within the rectangular frame and the supports can constitute the pillar like projections integrally formed with the planar members. Additionally the four spaced parallel planar members and the pillar like projections thereof can be formed from the oxide dispersed strengthened metal.

In yet another aspect the present invention provides an oxygen transport membrane element to separate oxygen from an oxygen containing gas that comprises a planar member having spaced arrays of openings and oxygen transport membrane material capable of conducting oxygen ions attached to and in registry with the spaced array of openings.

With reference to a hydrogen production facility is illustrated that is used in the generation of hydrogen. However it is understood that such environment for the present invention is for illustrative purposes only and that the present invention has a wider applicability.

Briefly a hydrocarbon containing stream that as illustrated can be natural gas but potentially any stream containing one or more hydrocarbons to be subjected to steam methane reforming reactions is conducted to a reactor to produce a synthesis gas stream containing hydrogen carbon dioxide carbon monoxide water and trace amounts of unreacted hydrocarbons. The hydrogen content of synthesis gas stream is increased within a known water gas shift reactor and hydrogen is separated from the resulting shifted stream in a known pressure swing adsorption unit having beds of adsorbent operating out of phase to separate hydrogen from such stream and thereby to produce a hydrogen stream and a tail gas stream .

Tail gas stream is the sole fuel to be combusted within reactor supported by an oxygen containing gas illustrated as air stream or other oxygen containing gas for example a compressed exhaust from a gas turbine. The combustion of tail gas stream supports the endothermic reaction requirements of the known steam methane reforming reactions conducted within reactor . As will be discussed the use of the tail gas allows high production and nearly perfect sequestration of the carbon dioxide produced by the combustion. However other fuels could be used alone or in conjunction with tail gas stream . An exhaust stream can be further treated to produce a carbon dioxide product stream .

Hydrocarbon containing feed stream typically enters at pressure about 450 psig and is heated within a heat exchanger to a temperature suitable for desulphurization for example between about 260 C. and about 400 C. preferably 370 C. Although not illustrated natural gas typically contains sulfur species and has been treated to convert such sulfur species to hydrogen sulphide in a known hydrotreater in which the sulfur species are hydrogenated to produce hydrogen sulfide. Hydrocarbon containing feed stream would similarly be treated within a hydrotreater in that in the illustrated embodiment it is formed from natural gas. The resultant hydrogen sulphide is removed from hydrocarbon containing feed stream in an adsorption bed that is typically zinc oxide to absorb the hydrogen sulphide. The thus treated hydrocarbon containing feed stream is then combined with a high pressure superheated steam stream to produce a reactant stream that is fed into a mixed feed heater to heat the reactant stream to a temperature in a range of between about 482 C. and about 565 C. preferably about 565 C. The reactant stream is then fed into reactor for conducting the steam methane reforming reactions.

Reactor is illustrated as having separate stages and . Reactions stages and contain catalytic reaction zones and that contain a steam methane reforming catalyst to conduct a series of steam methane reforming reactions. The reaction stages and also contain combustion zones and in which tail gas stream as a fuel is combusted to generate heat to support the endothermic reforming reactions that are being conducted within reaction zones and .

The combustion of the fuel is supported with the use of essentially pure oxygen that is produced within separation zones and by separation of oxygen from oxygen containing feed stream which can be air. While the use of oxygen transport membrane elements will be described in more detail hereinafter such elements are located between combustion zones and and separation zones and .

Synthesis gas stream emerges from reactor at essentially the same conditions as a conventionally fired steam methane reformer that is set forth in the example below. The synthesis gas stream is successively cooled within heat exchangers and to a temperature that is suitable for a water gas shift reaction in which steam is reacted with carbon monoxide to create further hydrogen and further carbon dioxide. The synthesis gas stream after having been so suitably cooled typically to a temperature of between about 180 C. and about 350 C. is then introduced into water gas shift reactor containing a water gas shift catalyst to produce shifted stream . Shifted gas stream is then further cooled in a series of heat exchangers and in which the water content condenses.

Although not illustrated heat exchangers and would be the conventional heaters that are found in a fired steam methane reformer to heat feed water to boiling and to help generate superheated steam used to form process steam that will be discussed hereinafter.

Shifted gas stream after having passed through heat exchanger is cooled to a temperature that is near ambient typically between about 32 C. and 49 C. The water separates in a conventional knock out drum to produce a water stream . The dried shifted stream then passes to pressure swing adsorption unit that typically is capable of separating approximately 85 percent of the hydrogen to form hydrogen product stream and tail gas stream . Tail gas stream has a composition that is set forth in the example below.

Tail gas stream is then heated within a heat exchanger back up to the operational temperature of reactor again typically a temperature in a range of between about 482 C. and about 760 C. typically about 677 C. and is then introduced into reactor . Tail gas stream is successively being combusted within combustion zones and . As will be discussed in order to assure adequate oxygen transport through the oxygen transport membrane elements there has to be sufficient amount of fuel in the latter combustion zones for instance combustion zones and to support the oxygen ion transfer. As a result exhaust stream contains significant amounts of unburned fuel typically between about 1 percent and about 5 percent of the total fuel value being introduced so that combustion is between about 95 percent and about 99 percent complete.

Exhaust stream then passes through an afterburner . Afterburner can employ the same design of each of the reaction stages and that will be discussed hereinafter. Each would have a separation zone a combustion zone and a third adjacent zone which would be similar to the catalytic reaction zones without a steam methane reforming catalyst. Steam could be passed through such zones for superheating steam. Additionally such an afterburner could be formed from any one of a number of known oxygen transport membrane units in which the fuel value of exhaust stream would be combusted by separating oxygen from an oxygen containing stream to fully combust the fuel and potentially produce additional carbon dioxide. Hence after afterburner exhaust stream principally contains carbon dioxide and water because all combustion thereof has been supported by essential pure oxygen.

The exhaust gas stream then passes through heat exchangers and in which boiler feed water is preheated in heat exchangers and and the oxygen containing stream is preheated within the heat exchanger . Further heat is then removed in heat exchangers and to reject heat to the ambient and to cool exhaust gas stream to a temperature at which water condenses. In order to remove the condensate exhaust gas stream is passed into a knock out drum in which the disengaged water is discharged to produce a dried exhaust gas stream . Dried carbon dioxide stream is then compressed in a compressor unit that can have a series of compression stages with interstage cooling as known in the art to produce carbon dioxide product stream . Carbon dioxide product stream can then be utilized in other processes further purified or simply sequestered.

Oxygen containing stream is compressed by a compressor or blower to a sufficient pressure to overcome pressure drop through the plant. Typically between about and about psig. Preferably the resultant oxygen containing stream is then split into streams and . Stream is heated within heat exchanger to a temperature of between about 900 F. and about 1400 F. Stream is heated to essentially the same temperature within heat exchanger .

Oxygen containing stream is then subdivided into first and second subsidiary streams and . The remainder is combined with stream which is then subdivided again into third fourth and fifth subsidiary oxygen containing streams and . The remaining portion of stream namely stream is then introduced into afterburner . As mentioned previously oxygen is separated from stream within afterburner .

The separation of oxygen within separation zones and produce a first retentate stream and separation of oxygen from stream within afterburner produces a second retentate stream . First and second retentate streams and are then combined to produce a combined retentate stream that is introduced into a combustor that is fueled preferably with a natural gas fuel stream to produce a heated stream . Heated stream is then subdivided into subsidiary heated streams and that are respectively passed into heat exchangers and . In heat exchanger the hydrocarbon containing stream is preheated in heat exchanger tail gas stream is preheated and in heat exchanger stream is preheated. The subsidiary preheated streams and are then recombined and with the use of a blower are discharged as a stream .

Returning to reactor the use of separate reaction stages and allow for the maximum metal temperature within each of said stages to be adjusted so that at least one of the stages for instance the final reaction stage namely reaction stage can operate at a maximum metal temperature range of between about 900 C. and about 1100 C. Reaction stages and can operate at a lower maximum metal temperature for example a temperature less than about 850 C. This allows for high temperature materials to be utilized in the final of the reaction stages reaction stage and lower temperature materials to be used in the upstream or preceding stages namely reaction stages and . For example reaction stage can be fabricated from an oxygen dispersed strengthened material a relatively expensive material and reaction stages and can utilize a lower temperature material a high temperature alloy for instance INCONEL 693 alloy or HAYNES 214 alloy.

In any reactor in accordance with the present invention the operation thereof is somewhat analogous to that of a fired reformer in that initially there exists a high concentration of reactants to absorb heat in the endothermic steam methane reforming reactions. As the flow of reactants is consumed however there are less reactants present to react and less heat will be absorbed by reaction. Consequently in downstream locations of the reactor for a given heat flux temperature will naturally rise. By connecting reactor stages in series and allowing the steam methane reforming reaction to proceed from stage to stage down stream stages will thus naturally operate at higher temperatures assuming that the heat flux is maintained relatively constant. Provided that there are a sufficient number of reaction stages the use of the more expensive alloys can thus be confined to downstream stages. As will be discussed the temperature distribution can be further controlled to tailor the temperature distribution within the reactor to ensure that the device obtains the maximum conversion of reactants within reaction stages to synthesis gas within the constraints of thermal material limitations of the material being used to form each of the reaction stages.

For example in reactor illustrated in temperature can be controlled by metering oxygen containing streams and so that a limited amount of oxygen is available in each of the reaction stages and consequently the reactor temperature is thereby limited. Ideally the amount of air supplied to each of the reaction stages will be approximately equal however there are two effects which act in opposite directions. The first effect is that the concentration of reaction products in the fuel gas flue gas stream gradually increases through the cascade of reactors being lowest in reaction stage and highest in reaction stage . This has the effect of reducing the mass transfer rate of oxygen into reaction stage at the same oxygen partial pressure in the oxidant stream as is present in oxidant stream . Consequently if the same amounts of oxidant are fed to each of the reaction stages reaction stage will tend to operate hotter than reaction stage . The second effect is that the partial pressure of oxidant at the inlet of each reaction stage decreases through the cascade from reaction stage to reaction stage . This is because reaction stage is the only reaction stage which is fed with undiluted oxidant. In each of the other stages the oxidant is diluted with partially depleted oxidant even at the inlet. The relative flows of oxidant streams and can be manipulated to create a desired temperature profile through the cascade of reactors in particular it is possible to operate reaction stage at a higher temperature than reaction stages and . Since as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art each of the stages operates at conditions approaching equilibrium conversion of hydrocarbons by steam methane reforming reaction it is possible to tailor the temperature profile on the hydrocarbon side of the reactor so that the outlet temperature of the reaction stages increases steadily as the flow progresses through reaction stages and . In particular to maintain a sufficiently high temperature at the exit of reaction stage that the reforming reactions proceed with at least 95 percent conversion of methane to carbon monoxide and hydrogen while maintaining a lower hydrocarbon conversion in reaction stages and with a temperature below the limits of the conventional high temperature alloys employed.

As could be appreciated by those skilled in the art fewer of the upstream stages and could be set to operate at the lower temperature. For example only reaction stages and might be set to operate at the lower temperature while reaction stages and would operate at the higher temperature and therefore utilize the higher temperature material. Although five reaction stages are illustrated a greater or lesser number of such stages could be utilized.

With reference to a different technique is utilized to fine tune the control of temperature within the reaction stages. In the amount of fuel that is introduced into each of the reaction stages and is metered. In this embodiment tail gas stream is subdivided into fuel streams and . The temperature attained in each reaction stage is again limited by mass transfer of oxidant and by the inlet temperature of reactants from the upstream reaction stage. Accordingly if the amounts of fuel supplied to each stage are equal reaction stage will naturally tend to operate hotter than the upstream stages. The precise temperatures at which each of the stages will operate can be adjusted to some extent by controlling the fuel supplied to each stage through streams and . However it should be noted that the process side temperature will in all cases tend to increase as the flow proceeds through the stages being as always limited by equilibrium considerations. As can be appreciated the combination of the methods for fine tuning the control of temperature could be utilized in that subsidiary oxygen containing streams and could be metered as well as subsidiary fuel streams and . Metering of these streams can simply be a matter of appropriately sizing the pipe diameters for such streams or can be more sophisticated with the use of manually operated or automatically operated control valves that utilize a control system and temperature sensors to constantly compute the flow rates and to adjust the flow rates entering reactor stages and .

With reference to reactor is illustrated. Reactor is provided with reaction stages and . Each of the reaction stages and is provided with a housing having an oxygen containing gas inlet and a retentate outlet . In order to utilize reactor in the embodiment illustrated in oxygen containing gas inlet of reaction stage would be connected to a conduit to receive the subsidiary oxygen containing gas stream . Retentate outlet would be connected to oxygen containing gas inlet of reaction stage . In addition a conduit could also be connected to oxygen containing gas inlet of reaction stage to receive subsidiary oxygen containing stream . Similarly retentate outlet of reaction stage would be connected to oxygen containing gas inlet of reaction stage . Additionally a conduit could be connected to oxygen containing gas inlet of reaction stage to receive subsidiary oxygen containing gas stream . Retentate outlet of reaction stage would be connected to oxygen containing gas inlet of reaction stage . Additionally the conduit would be connected to oxygen containing gas inlet of reaction stage for subsidiary oxygen containing gas stream . Retentate outlet of reaction stage would be connected to oxygen containing gas inlet of reaction stage . A separate conduit would be provided for introduction of subsidiary oxygen containing gas stream into oxygen containing gas stream . First retentate stream is discharged from retentate outlet of reaction stage . The aforementioned conduits would act as intermediate oxygen containing gas inlets to allow for the oxygen containing gas to be separately metered to each of the aforesaid reaction stages. If reactor were to be used in the embodiment of then such conduits would not be included and the oxygen containing gas inlets of the reaction stages and would be connected solely to conduits to receive subsidiary oxygen containing streams and respectively.

Each of the reaction stages and is provided with a fuel gas inlet a fuel manifold and fuel distributor pipes . Furthermore each of the reaction stages is provided with an exhaust gas outlet . Each exhaust gas outlet is connected to an exhaust gas manifold to receive exhaust gases from the reaction stages and exhaust pipes .

Fuel gas inlet of reaction stage is connected to a conduit to receive tail gas stream . In the embodiment illustrated in exhaust gas outlet is connected to fuel gas inlet of reaction stage exhaust gas outlet of reaction stage is connected to fuel gas inlet of reaction stage fuel gas outlet of reaction stage is connected to fuel gas inlet of reaction stage exhaust gas outlet of reaction stage is connected to fuel gas inlet of reaction stage . Exhaust gas outlet discharges exhaust stream . In the embodiment of separate conduits would be connected to fuel gas inlet of reaction stage fuel gas inlet of reaction stage fuel gas inlet of reaction stage and fuel gas inlet of reaction stage . This would allow the separation metering and introduction of fuel streams and and as such the conduits would serve as intermediate fuel inlets for reactor .

Reaction stage is provided with a reaction gas inlet to receive reaction gas stream and a gas collection box is connected to the underside of the housing which is open of reaction stage to discharge synthesis gas stream from a synthesis gas outlet . As will be discussed each of the reactor stages and are connected in series so that intermediate synthesis gas products produced by reaction stage are fed to reaction stage and from reaction stage to reaction stage then from reaction stage to reaction stage and from reaction stage to reaction stage .

With reference to each of the housings form a chamber that is defined between side walls and and top and bottom walls and . Housed within chamber are identical reactor elements . Chamber is open and provided with end walls to permit the oxygen containing gas streams and to be introduced into oxygen containing gas inlet and retentate to be discharged from retentate outlets . In case of reaction stage the oxygen containing gas would be combined and would consist of subsidiary oxygen containing gas stream and retentate emanating from reactor stage and from its respective retentate outlet . In case of reactor stage first retentate stream is discharged from its retentate outlet as a first retentate stream .

As mentioned previously the oxygen containing gas enters separation zones within chamber for purposes of separating oxygen from the oxygen containing gas. With respect to reactor element such separation zones are the open spaces within chamber defined by reactor elements for example separation zones that collectively form the separation zones referenced in .

Each of the reactor elements are formed from first second third and fourth parallel plates and . Combustion zones and are located between first and second parallel plates and and third and fourth parallel plates and . The fuel entering inlet pipes for reactor stage are distributed to combustion zones and and the exhaust gas is collected by outlet pipes and outlet manifold to be discharged through exhaust gas outlet . The combustion zones and of reactor elements collectively form the combustion zone discussed above with respect to reaction stage . Reaction stages and are constructed in the same manner.

Reactant gas enters a top plenum and is discharged from a bottom plenum . Top plenum with respect to reaction stage has a top wall and opposed side walls and and side walls . Bottom plenum has opposed side walls and and opposed side walls . Reaction gas stream passes into top plenum and partially reacted gases or intermediate gases are discharged from bottom plenum to the next subsequent stage which would be reaction stage .

With additional reference to reactant stream enters reactant inlet . Reactant inlet is connected to a fluid distributor having a central conduit connected to reactant inlet and distribution branches having openings to distribute the reactant of steam and hydrocarbons and the catalytic reaction zones that will be discussed. Catalytic reaction zones form the catalytic reaction zones and that have been previously discussed. These zones are connected in series such that plenum would be connected to plenum of the next succeeding reaction stage . Plenum of reaction stage would of course not be provided with top wall for such purposes. Reaction stage again would be open at top plenum and be closed at bottom plenum thereof with provision of synthesis gas outlet connected to a fluid distributor having the same configuration as fluid distributor .

The planar members and are retained within a frame. This frame allows movement of all planar members to prevent stresses from building up and causing warpage of the planar members. In this regard planar members and are connected at the top and bottom edges to opposed transverse members and at the top and bottom thereof. Planar members are welded together as are planar members to hold the reactor elements in place. With reference again to transverse members are provided with slot like openings to enable the reactant to enter reaction zones . Similarly although not illustrated transverse members would also be provided with such slot like openings to discharge the intermediate product.

Additionally the transverse edges of planar members and are retained within grooves of transverse members and to enable them to expand and contract.

With specific reference to planar members and are in turn connected by end walls and as such reaction zones are defined by a rectangular like tube formed between end walls and planar members and . Four sets of tabs extending from edge portions of planar members and equally spaced and located between two nozzle like projections and are provided to center the reaction zone with respect to the combustion zones and .

Integrally formed with planar members and are pillar like projections and for structural support. Pillar like projections are integrally formed with planar member and pillar like projections are integrally formed with planar members . Similarly pillar like projections are integrally formed with planar member and pillar like projections are integrally formed with planar member . The aforesaid pillar like projections are not however connected to the opposite planar member from which they are formed to allow for thermal expansion. For example pillar like projection extend from planar member but are not connected to planar member .

With additional reference to planar members and are connected to headers and having nozzle like projections and . Nozzle like projections connect to inlet pipes to receive the fuel gas and nozzle like projections connect to exhaust pipe to discharge the combustion products. Each of the reactor elements is provided with four of such projecting nozzle elements and to connect to four fuel inlet pipes and four exhaust pipes respectively.

With reference to each of the planar members and serve as oxygen ion transport elements to separate oxygen from the incoming oxygen containing gas. Illustratively planar member is illustrated and will be discussed herein. It is understood that planar member is identical. Planar member on its exterior surface is provided with oxygen ion membrane materials . They are circular in configuration and overlie and are in registry with perforated areas of planar member provided by perforations .

As discussed above the control of temperature allows planar members through of reaction stage to be made of the more expensive high temperature materials for instance oxide dispersed strengthened metal as opposed to the upstream reaction stages and which can all be made out of a less expensive high temperature alloy. Oxide dispersed strengthened metal alloys reliably function while maintaining their structural integrity by being resistant to creep and out and out failure at high temperatures of up to 1200 C. Such metal alloys contain aluminum chromium and iron and yttrium oxide and can be obtained as MA956 alloy from Special Metals Corporation Huntington W. Va. United States or PM2000 alloy from Plancee Holding AG an Austrian corporation having a place of business at A 6600 Reutte Tirol Austria. Other possible materials are metal reinforced intermetallic alloys for example Nb reinforced Nb.sub.3Al Nb Nb.sub.3Al Nb or TiNb TiAl Mo or Cr NiAl Nb MoSi.sub.2 Boron doped Mo.sub.5Si.sub.3 based intermetallic alloys and combinations thereof. Ceramic materials include yttria toughened zirconia such as Y TZP ZrO.sub.2 3 Y.sub.20.sub.3 ceria toughened zirconia such as Ce TZP ZrO.sub.2 xCeO.sub.2 or gadolinium doped ceria. All of the alloys and ceramics have attractive high temperature properties including good creep resistance and superior mechanical strength. These materials also have high fracture toughness.

The proceeding reaction stages and can be fabricated from less expensive high temperature alloys discussed above. It is to be noted that the walls of the reactor stages formed by housing of any reactor stage need not in any case be constructed of high temperature materials in that they are exposed to the ambient temperature and heat will thereby dissipate into the ambient environment.

With specific reference to each of the circular regions of the oxygen ion membrane materials has a dense layer applied to a porous layer that is in turn applied to planar member . Pores are of cylindrical or slightly conical configuration and can be formed by known electron beam drilling techniques. Such pores can taper from about 150 microns to about 75 microns. Porous layer located between dense layer and planar member helps to at least distribute separated oxygen from dense layer to the cylindrical pores . For such purposes the pores of porous layer are interconnected. Both dense layer and porous layer can be composed of a material capable of conducting both oxygen ions and electrons such as will be discussed below.

Dense layer is preferably a mixture of three phases containing a mixed conductor an ionic conductor and a metallic electronic conductor can contain about 40 percent by weight LSFT LaSrFeTiO 40 percent by weight CGO CeGdO and about 20 percent by weight silver. Porous layer can be similarly formed. The difference between the coefficient of thermal expansion of such material over a MA956 oxide dispersed strengthened metal is less than 1 ppm K. over the range of about 100 C. to about 1000 C. The proportions would be adjusted for upstream stages formed of high temperature alloys in a manner known in the art.

The material for the dense layer and the porous layer can be prepared by first obtaining about 40 grams of LSFT powder having particle sizes of between about 20 and about 30 microns agglomerated from primary particle sizes of between about 0.3 microns and about 0.5 microns 40 grams of CGO powder having particle sizes of between about 20 and about 30 microns agglomerated from primary particle sizes of between about 0.5 and about 0.6 microns and 20 grams of silver powder with particle size of between about 2 and about 3 microns. The foregoing components can be placed into a plastic vial with a few mixing zirconia balls. The powder mixture can then be ball milled for 20 minutes.

Dense layer and a porous layer can be applied to the porous regions of planar member by plasma spraying with standard deposition conditions. Porous layer can have a thickness of about 80 microns. The porosity within the porous layer can be achieved using the above three component mixed powder blended with 40 percent by weight of graphite having average particles size of 75 microns. The dense layer can then be applied to porous layer . The thickness of dense layer is preferably about 150 microns.

In order to prevent silver evaporation at high temperature an additional thin porous layer with thickness less than 20 microns of LSFT coating containing no silver addition can be plasma sprayed on the surface of dense layer . This porous LSFT coating can be obtained by spraying the above LSFT powder mixed with 40 percent weight graphite having average particle size of 75 microns.

It is to be noted that a reactor could incorporate oxygen transport membrane elements that would utilize a single dense layer on a planar porous support as opposed to the structure outlined above having an underlying porous layer with interconnected pores and an overlying layer to prevent silver evaporation. As could be appreciated an oxygen transport membrane element having such structure would not incorporate the efficiency and potential longevity of the structure specifically described herein.

As could be appreciated by those skilled in the art the oxygen transport membrane element described above has broader applicability than its use in a reactor and could be used in any oxygen separation device or any oxygen transport membrane reactor.

A further point worth mentioning is that although the foregoing reaction stages and are preferred other types of reactors could be employed in the present invention that would advantageously operate at successively higher temperatures to minimize the use of expensive materials. In this regard the prior art has provided examples of three passage oxygen transport membrane reactors having separation zones combustion zones and reaction zones that are capable of conducting steam methane reforming reactions. Such reactors can incorporate tubular oxygen transport membrane elements and are in any case different from the individual reaction stages incorporated into reactor described in detail hereinabove. As could be appreciated by those skilled in the art such reactors could be linked together in a manner in which each reactor would function as a reaction stage in a manner that would enable a process of the present invention to be conducted.

As indicated above the preferred reaction stage design employed with respect to reaction stages and could form the structure of a single reactor. Such a reactor could be used to conduct any endothermic catalyzed reaction.

Furthermore even in the illustrated embodiment it is possible to construct a reactor element having only three planar members namely a planar member to serve as an oxygen ion transport element and the two adjacent members to perform a reaction zone and a combustion zone.

The following is a calculated example of a reactor utilized within the environment of . This worked example is for production of 100 million standard cubic feet of hydrogen per day using a steam to carbon ratio of 2.75. For purposes of this example reactor modules each consisting of 25 reactor elements were employed in total. Each such module has overall dimensions 1 m by 1 m by 1 m and contains 50 m2 of heat transfer surface and 29 mof active OTM surface. The total area available for oxygen transport within the device is 3480 mand the system operates with a total oxygen flux of about 1.20 lbmol h m approximately 20 sccm cm . The following tables summarize the results 

While the present invention has been described with reference to a preferred embodiment as will occur to those skilled in the art other changes additions and omissions may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

