---

title: System and method for generating a composite source user interface
abstract: The subject application is directed to a system and method for generating a composite source user interface. A text query corresponding to a text element associated with a graphical element on a display of the associated user interface is first received by a backend component. The received text query data is then directed to a data document on the associated data storage. Text data is then received from the data document of the associated data storage. Thereafter, the received text data is then communicated to the associated user interface so as to generate indicia on the associated user interface. Preferably, the indicia includes a graphical element and the text data, such as, for example and without limitation, an icon and associated text, or the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07681135&OS=07681135&RS=07681135
owner: Toshiba Tec Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 07681135
owner_city: 
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20060810
---
The subject application is directed to a system and method for generating a composite source user interface. More particularly the subject application is directed to a system and method for generating a user interface wherein selected components of the user interface are generated and stored by separate components. The subject application provides the ability to generate or modify a user interface much more quickly and easily.

Generally user interfaces such as those provided on a document processing device undergo frequent modification due to a variety of reasons such as new user requirements a new user interface framework or the addition of features to be provided by the document processing device. In the past user interfaces have been designed such that the graphical presentation component for the user interface is created and integrated with the text presentation component. Therefore if the text of the user interface must be changed such as to correct an error update an interface or to translate the text to another language the entire user interface must be modified including the graphical presentation which is time consuming and prone to error. User interfaces have also been designed such that the text presentation component of the user interface is generated and managed by a system or component separate from the user interface. The graphical presentation component is generated and managed by the user interface itself. However in such design the interaction between the user interface and the system managing the text presentation suffers from delay insofar as text must be retrieved and merged into a composite graphical and text interface.

It is desirable to have a system and method by which a text portion of a user interface is able to be created amended or altered quickly while simultaneously allowing access to text very quickly and with assured data integrity.

In accordance with the subject application there is provided a system and method for generating a composite source user interface.

Further in accordance with the subject application there is provided a system and method for generating a user interface wherein selected components of the user interface are generated and stored by separate components.

Still further in accordance with the subject application there is provided a system and method by which a text portion of a user interface is able to be created amended or altered quickly while simultaneously allowing access to text very quickly and with assured data integrity.

Still further in accordance with the subject application there is provided a system for generating a user interface. The system includes means adapted for receiving a text query corresponding to a text element associated with a graphical element on a display of an associated user interface and means adapted for directing a received text query to a data document of an associated data storage. The system also includes means adapted for receiving text data from the data document of the associated data storage and means adapted for communicating received text data to the associated user interface so as to generate an indicia thereon inclusive of a graphical element and the text data.

In one embodiment the system further comprises synchronizing means adapted for synchronizing content of the data document with the indicia such that modifications made to text data of the data document are reflected in the indicia. Preferably the synchronizing means includes means adapted for sensing a modification to the data document and notification means adapted for commencing an update of text data of the indicia in accordance with a sensed modification.

In another embodiment the received text query is directed to a selected data document of an associated storage in accordance with preference data. Preferably the preference data includes data representative of a selected language.

In yet another embodiment the text query is comprised of an XPath query. In a more preferred embodiment the data document is comprised of a document object model.

Still further in accordance with the subject application there is provided a method for generating a composite source user interface in accordance with the system as set forth above.

Still other advantages aspects and features of the subject application will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following description wherein there is shown and described a preferred embodiment of the subject application simply by way of illustration of one of the best modes best suited to carry out the subject application. As it will be realized the subject application is capable of other different embodiments and its several details are capable of modifications in various obvious aspects all without departing from the scope of the subject application. Accordingly the drawings and description will be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

The subject application is directed to a system and method for generating a composite source user interface. In particular the subject application is directed to a system and method for generating a user interface wherein selected components of the user interface are generated and stored by separate components. More particularly the subject application is directed to a system and method by which a text portion of a user interface is able to be created amended or altered quickly while simultaneously allowing access text very quickly and with assured data integrity. It will become apparent to those skilled in the art that the system and method described herein are suitably adapted to a plurality of varying electronic fields employing user interfaces including for example and without limitation communications general computing data processing document processing or the like. The preferred embodiment as depicted in FIG. illustrates a document processing field for example purposes only and is not a limitation of the subject application solely to such a field.

Referring now to there is shown an overall diagram of the system for generating a composite source user interface in accordance with the subject application. As shown in the system is capable of implementation using a distributed computing environment illustrated as a computer network . It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the computer network is any distributed communications system known in the art capable of enabling the exchange of data between two or more electronic devices. The skilled artisan will further appreciate that the computer network includes for example and without limitation a virtual local area network a wide area network a personal area network a local area network the Internet an intranet or the any suitable combination thereof. In accordance with the preferred embodiment of the subject application the computer network is comprised of physical layers and transport layers as illustrated by the myriad of conventional data transport mechanisms such as for example and without limitation Token Ring 802.11 x Ethernet or other wireless or wire based data communication mechanisms. The skilled artisan will appreciate that while a computer network is shown in the subject application is equally capable of use in a stand alone system as will be known in the art.

The system also includes a document processing device depicted in as a multifunction peripheral device suitably adapted to perform a variety of document processing operations. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that such document processing operations include for example and without limitation facsimile scanning copying printing electronic mail document management document storage or the like. Suitable commercially available document processing devices include for example and without limitation the Toshiba e Studio Series Controller. In accordance with one aspect of the subject application the document processing device is suitably adapted to provide remote document processing services to external or network devices. Preferably the document processing device includes hardware software and any suitable combination thereof configured to interact with an associated user a networked device or the like.

According to one embodiment of the subject application the document processing device is suitably equipped to receive a plurality of portable storage media including without limitation Firewire drive USB drive SD MMC XD Compact Flash Memory Stick and the like. In the preferred embodiment of the subject application the document processing device further includes an associated user interface such as a touch screen LCD display touch panel alpha numeric keypad or the like via which an associated user is able to interact directly with the document processing device . In accordance with the preferred embodiment of the subject application the user interface is advantageously used to communicate information to the associated user and receive selections from the associated user. The skilled artisan will appreciate that the user interface comprises various components suitably adapted to present data to the associated user as are known in the art. Preferably the document processing device is communicatively coupled to the computer network via a suitable communications link . As will be understood by those skilled in the art suitable communications links include for example and without limitation WiMax 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11 x Bluetooth the public switched telephone network a proprietary communications network infrared optical or any other suitable wired or wireless data transmission communications known in the art.

In accordance with the subject application the document processing device further incorporates a controller suitably adapted to facilitate the operations of the document processing device as will be understood by those skilled in the art. Preferably the controller is embodied as hardware software or any suitable combination thereof configured to control the operations of the associated document processing device facilitate the display of images via the user interface direct the manipulation of electronic image data and the like. For purposes of explanation the controller is used to refer to any myriad of components associated with the document processing device including hardware software or combinations thereof functioning to perform cause to be performed control or otherwise direct the methodologies described hereinafter. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that the methodologies described with respect to the controller are capable of being performed by any general purpose computing system known in the art and thus the controller is representative of such a general computing device and is intended as such when used hereinafter. Furthermore the use of the controller hereinafter is for the example embodiment only and other embodiments which will be apparent to one skilled in the art are capable of employing the system and method for generating a composite source user interface of the subject application. The functioning of the controller will better be understood in conjunction with the block diagrams illustrated in explained in greater detail below.

Communicatively coupled to the document processing device is a data storage device . In accordance with the preferred embodiment of the subject application the data storage device is any mass storage device known in the art including for example and without limitation magnetic storage drives a hard disk drive optical storage devices flash memory devices or any suitable combination thereof. In the preferred embodiment the data storage device is suitably adapted to store a data document or the like. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that while illustrated in as being a separate component of the system the data storage device is capable of being implemented as internal storage component of the document processing device a component of the controller or the like such as for example and without limitation an internal hard disk drive or the like. The data document is representative of any object oriented application programming interface that enables the parsing of a programming language into a well defined tree structure and operating on its contents such as for example and without limitation a document object module. Preferably the data document includes data representative of text presentation data graphical presentation data text data graphical data indicia or the like.

The system illustrated in further depicts a user device in data communication with the computer network via a communications link . It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the user device is shown in as a laptop computer for illustration purposes only. As will be understood by those skilled in the art the user device is representative of any personal computing device known in the art including for example and without limitation a computer workstation a personal computer a personal data assistant a web enabled cellular telephone a smart phone a proprietary network device or other web enabled electronic device. The communications link is any suitable channel of data communications known in the art including but not limited to wireless communications for example and without limitation Bluetooth WiMax 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11 x a proprietary communications network infrared optical the public switched telephone network or any suitable wireless data transmission system or wired communications known in the art. Preferably the user device is suitably adapted to generate and transmit electronic documents document processing instructions user interface modifications upgrades updates personalization data or the like to the document processing device or any other similar device coupled to the computer network .

Turning now to illustrated is a representative architecture of a suitable controller shown in as the controller on which operations of the subject system are completed. The skilled artisan will understand that the controller is representative of any general computing device known in the art capable of facilitating the methodologies described herein. Included is a processor suitably comprised of a central processor unit. However it will be appreciated that processor may advantageously be composed of multiple processors working in concert with one another as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. Also included is a non volatile or read only memory which is advantageously used for static or fixed data or instructions such as BIOS functions system functions system configuration data and other routines or data used for operation of the controller .

Also included in the controller is random access memory suitably formed of dynamic random access memory static random access memory or any other suitable addressable and writable memory system. Random access memory provides a storage area for data instructions associated with applications and data handling accomplished by processor .

A storage interface suitably provides a mechanism for non volatile bulk or long term storage of data associated with the controller . The storage interface suitably uses bulk storage such as any suitable addressable or serial storage such as a disk optical tape drive and the like as shown as illustrated in as the storage device as well as any suitable storage medium as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art.

A network interface subsystem suitably routes input and output from an associated network allowing the controller to communicate to other devices. Network interface subsystem suitably interfaces with one or more connections with external devices to the device . By way of example illustrated is at least one network interface card for data communication with fixed or wired networks such as Ethernet token ring and the like and a wireless interface suitably adapted for wireless communication via means such as WiFi WiMax wireless modem cellular network or any suitable wireless communication system. It is to be appreciated however that the network interface subsystem suitably utilizes any physical or non physical data transfer layer or protocol layer as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. In the illustration the network interface is interconnected for data interchange via a physical network suitably comprised of a local area network wide area network or a combination thereof.

Data communication between the processor read only memory random access memory storage interface and network interface subsystem is suitably accomplished via a bus data transfer mechanism such as illustrated by bus .

Also in data communication with bus is a document processor interface . Document processor interface suitably provides connection with hardware to perform one or more document processing operations. Such operations include copying accomplished via copy hardware scanning accomplished via scan hardware printing accomplished via print hardware and facsimile communication accomplished via facsimile hardware . It is to be appreciated that a controller suitably operates any or all of the aforementioned document processing operations. Systems accomplishing more than one document processing operation are commonly referred to as multifunction peripherals or multifunction devices.

Functionality of the subject system is accomplished on a suitable document processing device that includes the controller of shown in as the controller as an intelligent subsystem associated with a document processing device. In the illustration of controller function in the preferred embodiment includes a document processing engine . A suitable controller functionality is that incorporated into the Toshiba e Studio system in the preferred embodiment. illustrates suitable functionality of the hardware of in connection with software and operating system functionality as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art.

In the preferred embodiment the engine allows for printing operations copy operations facsimile operations and scanning operations. This functionality is frequently associated with multi function peripherals which have become a document processing peripheral of choice in the industry. It will be appreciated however that the subject controller does not have to have all such capabilities. Controllers are also advantageously employed in dedicated or more limited purposes document processing devices that are subset of the document processing operations listed above.

The engine is suitably interfaced to a user interface panel which panel allows for a user or administrator to access functionality controlled by the engine . Access is suitably via an interface local to the controller or remotely via a remote thin or thick client.

The engine is in data communication with printer function facsimile function and scan function . These devices facilitate the actual operation of printing facsimile transmission and reception and document scanning for use in securing document images for copying or generating electronic versions.

A job queue is suitably in data communication with printer function facsimile function and scan function . It will be appreciated that various image forms such as bit map page description language or vector format and the like are suitably relayed from scan function for subsequent handling via job queue .

The job queue is also in data communication with network services . In a preferred embodiment job control status data or electronic document data is exchanged between job queue and network services . Thus suitable interface is provided for network based access to the controller via client side network services which is any suitable thin or thick client. In the preferred embodiment the web services access is suitably accomplished via a hypertext transfer protocol file transfer protocol uniform data diagram protocol or any other suitable exchange mechanism. Network services also advantageously supplies data interchange with client side services for communication via FTP electronic mail TELNET or the like. Thus the controller function facilitates output or receipt of electronic document and user information via various network access mechanisms.

Job queue is also advantageously placed in data communication with an image processor . Image processor is suitably a raster image process page description language interpreter or any suitable mechanism for interchange of an electronic document to a format better suited for interchange with device services such as printing facsimile or scanning .

Finally job queue is in data communication with a parser which parser suitably functions to receive print job language files from an external device such as client device services . Client device services suitably include printing facsimile transmission or other suitable input of an electronic document for which handling by the controller function is advantageous. Parser functions to interpret a received electronic document file and relay it to a job queue for handling in connection with the afore described functionality and components.

In operation when the text portion of a user interface is to be modified such as changing the language correcting spelling updating settings or the like a text query corresponding to a text element associated with a graphical element on a display of the associated user interface is first received. Preferably a backend component such as the controller or other suitable computing device receives the text query from the user interface corresponding to a text element associated with a graphical element displayed on the user interface . The received text query data is then directed to a data document on the associated data storage. That is the backend component directs the text query to a data document stored on the associated data storage device . The skilled artisan will appreciate that the data document is capable of implementation as for example and without limitation a document object model document. Preferably the text query is in the form of an XPath query. Text data is then received from the data document of the associated data storage. The skilled artisan will appreciate that in response to the XPath query the backend component receives text data from the data document of the associated data storage device . Thereafter the received text data is then communicated to the associated user interface so as to generate indicia on the associated user interface. Preferably the indicia includes a graphical element and the text data such as for example and without limitation an icon and associated text or the like. Thus the skilled artisan will appreciate that the backend component communicates the received text data from the data document to the user interface .

The preceding will better be understood in conjunction with examples such as use of the subject application in conjunction with the graphical user interface implemented on a document processing device. It will be apparent however to those skilled in the art that the subject application is capable of implementation in any computer system employing a user interface comprising graphical presentation and or text presentation. In this example the backend component of the document processing device such as the controller or suitable components thereof receives a text query from the user interface via any suitable means known in the art. For purposes of this example the controller is used herein to refer to any backend component i.e. a component distinct from but in data communication with the user interface . Preferably the text query sent by the user interface to the controller corresponds to an XPath query. As the skilled artisan will appreciate the user interface uses XPath queries to retrieve data from a document object model data document . Thus the controller directs the text query to the data document via any suitable means known in the art. In accordance with the subject application the text query is directed advantageously to a selected data document according to preference data. Preferably the preference data corresponds to a selected language or the like. Thus as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the text query is capable of being directed to a data document on the associated storage in accordance with a selected language. The appropriate response to the query is then received by the controller from the data document whereupon it is communicated to the associated user interface .

The user interface then generates indicia including a graphical element and the text data received from the data document . The backend component e.g. the controller then monitors the data document for modifications thereto. Thus as will be understood by those skilled in the art a change in the language of the text data the font the style or the like will first be implemented in the data document . Such changes are advantageously detected by the controller whereupon an update to the text data of a given indicia is commenced. For example modifications to the text data are capable of originating via the user device and transmitted to the controller associated with the document processing device via the computer network . The modifications to the text data are then reflected in the data document stored on the associated data storage device . The skilled artisan will appreciate that such modifications are equally capable of being initiated via direct input at the user interface of the document processing device by an associated user. Thereafter the content of the data document with the indicia is synchronized such that modifications made to the text data of the data document are reflected in the indicia associated with the user interface . The skilled artisan will appreciate that the subject application enables the user interface to read directly from the persistent data document and employ the backend component to write data to the data document which then facilitates the synchronization of all views.

In accordance with one example embodiment of the subject application the data required for displaying the user interface is modeled as an XML schema. The backend component contains a document object model document the run time instance of the XML schema e.g. the data document and provides interfaces to Get Set Subscribe values in the data document . User interface components design their presentation by specifying an XPath query as the data source for each indicia in the presentation. At run time user interface components use this XPath query to retrieve indicia data from the backend component and paint the user interface screens. The action of retrieving the data occurs rapidly as there are no computations or assembling of data required. That is the data is readily available in the data document . Thus as the skilled artisan will appreciated specification of the indicia data source in terms of XPath queries speeds up the data lookup. Upon receipt of inputs from an associated user user interface components request the backend component to set values for a particular node in the data document by providing the XPath query and the value to be changed. The backend component performs the set operation to the data document . The user interface components then register with the backend component for receiving notifications on parts of the data document . As such parts of the data document are modified based on associated user actions the backend component notifies all subscribing components thereby giving an opportunity for the subscribing user interface components to refresh their respective presentations.

The skilled artisan will appreciate that the subject system and components described above with respect to and will be better understood in conjunction with the methodologies described hereinafter with respect to and . Turning now to there is shown a flowchart illustrating a method for generating a composite source user interface in accordance with the subject application. Beginning at step a text query is received corresponding to a text element associated with a graphical element on a display of an associated user interface. The received text query is then directed at step to a data document of an associated data storage. At step text data from the data document of the associated data storage is received. The received text data is then communicated at step to the associated user interface so as to generate an indicia thereon inclusive of a graphical element and the text data.

Referring now to there is shown a flowchart illustrating a method for generating a composite source user interface in accordance with the subject application. The skilled artisan will appreciate that the methodology depicted in corresponds to graphical and or text presentation as applied to a user interface associated with a document processing device. The use of the subject methodology implemented with respect to a user interface of an associated document processing device is for illustration purposes and the subject application is not limited only to such an implementation. The method begins at step wherein a text query is received by a backend component such as the controller from an associated user interface . The controller then directs the received text query at step to a data document stored on the associated data storage device . Preferably the data document is a document object model document as is known in the art. In accordance with the subject application the text query is directed advantageously to a selected data document according to preference data. Preferably the preference data corresponds to a selected language or the like. Thus as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the text query is capable of being directed to a data document on the associated storage in accordance with a selected language. At step the controller receives text data from the data document . As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the received text data corresponds for example and without limitation to updated upgrade or modified text presentation for use by the associated user interface .

At step the text data received from the data document is then communicated by the controller to the associated user interface . Thereafter at step an indicia is generated on the associated user interface including a graphical element and the received text data. A determination is then made at step whether the controller has detected any modifications to the data document . When no such modification is detected the methodology depicted in terminates. When the controller detects a modification to the data document flow proceeds to step whereupon the controller commences an update of the text data associated with the indicia. At step the controller facilitates the synchronization of the content of the data document with the indicia such that modifications made to the text data of the data document are reflected in the indicia.

The subject application extends to computer programs in the form of source code object code code intermediate sources and partially compiled object code or in any other form suitable for use in the implementation of the subject application. Computer programs are suitably standalone applications software components scripts or plug ins to other applications. Computer programs embedding the subject application are advantageously embodied on a carrier being any entity or device capable of carrying the computer program for example a storage medium such as ROM or RAM optical recording media such as CD ROM or magnetic recording media such as floppy discs. The carrier is any transmissible carrier such as an electrical or optical signal conveyed by electrical or optical cable or by radio or other means. Computer programs are suitably downloaded across the Internet from a server. Computer programs are also capable of being embedded in an integrated circuit. Any and all such embodiments containing code that will cause a computer to perform substantially the subject application principles as described will fall within the scope of the subject application.

The foregoing description of a preferred embodiment of the subject application has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the subject application to the precise form disclosed. Obvious modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiment was chosen and described to provide the best illustration of the principles of the subject application and its practical application to thereby enable one of ordinary skill in the art to use the subject application in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. All such modifications and variations are within the scope of the subject application as determined by the appended claims when interpreted in accordance with the breadth to which they are fairly legally and equitably entitled.

