---

title: Fluorohaloborate salts, synthesis and use thereof
abstract: A composition is provided as a salt having the formula MBFX where M is an alkali metal cation and X is the halide fluoride, bromide or iodide. A lithium salt has several characteristics making the composition well suited for inclusion within a lithium-ion battery. A process for forming an alkali metal trifluorohaloborate salt includes the preparation of a boron trifluoride etherate in an organic solvent. An alkali metal halide salt where the halide is chloride, bromide or iodide is suspended in the solution and reacted with boron trifluoride etherate to form an alkali metal trifluorohaloborate. The alkali metal trifluorohaloborate so produced is collected as a solid from the solution. The process is simple and yields alkali metal trifluorohaloborate of sufficient purity to be used directly in battery applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07833660&OS=07833660&RS=07833660
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07833660
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060907
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

This invention in general relates to fluorohaloborates and in particular to an organic synthesis for and use of high pure trifluoroborates in non aqueous electrochemical cells.

The development of rechargeable alkali metal ion batteries requires use of high quality salts. These salts should meet such requirements such as providing high ionic conductivity over wide temperature range being electrochemically stable relative to cathode and anode materials especially at the fully charged state being capable of passivating current collector material such as aluminum of the cathode at high potentials being able to assist the formation of a stable solid electrolyte interphase SEI with carbonaceous anode materials having high solubility at low temperatures and being thermally stable at high temperatures. Among many commercially available lithium salts only few are found to satisfy the above requirements. These salts include lithium hexafluorophosphate LiPF lithium perfluoroalkyl substituted fluorophosphates as detailed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 210 830 and 6 423 454 lithium tetrafluoroborate LiBF and recently developed lithium bis oxalate borate LiBOB as detailed in Patents DE 19829030 C1 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 506 516. It is noted that all these salts either contain phosphorus or contain boron. Extensive spectroscopic analyses have revealed that the SEI on the surface of carbonaceous anode in lithium ion batteries must contain molecular moieties of halogen and phosphorus or halogen and boron. These analyses suggest that the unique properties of these salts in lithium ion batteries are associated with the presence of phosphorus and boron.

LiBFhas been used as a conducting salt for electrolytes in both primary cells and rechargeable cells. The electrolytes in these batteries are non aqueous solutions of LiBFin organic solvent e.g. in dimethyl carbonate diethyl carbonate ethylmethyl carbonate ethylene carbonate propylene carbonate other carbonates or mixtures of the solvents mentioned. However LiBFis relatively inefficient in facilitating the formation of stable SEI on the surface of graphite. Additionally an electrolytic solution containing LiBFsalt has relatively low ionic conductivity because of the tight ion pairing between Li cations and BF anions.

Several prior art references teach methods for preparing highly pure LiBFby a means of the reaction of BFand LiF in non aqueous media. These have all met with limited success.

SU 1013405 describes the preparation of LiBFin tetrahydrofuran THF by reacting LiF with BFin yields of from 86 to 89 . The product is isolated by concentrating the THF solution. This generally gives a product containing considerable amounts of residual THF. To remove residual THF drying in vacuum at from 70 to 80 C. for from 10 to 15 hours is proposed.

JP A 56145113 describes a process for preparing LiBFby reacting LiF with BFin non aqueous organic solvents in which LiBFhas good solubility and which can form complexes with BF. Non aqueous organic solvents mentioned are tetrahydrofuran dimethoxyethane ethyl acetate and propylene carbonate. After the reaction of LiF with BF impurities are filtered off. LiBFis crystallized from the filtrate by saturating the solution with BF. With the solvent BFforms a complex in which LiBFhas low solubility and the product crystallizes.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 537 512 describes a method for preparing LiBFby reacting BFetherate and suspending LiF in dimethyl ether solution to produce LiBF. As the solubility of LiBFis low in dimethyl ether the formed LiBFcan be easily separated off by traditional filtering methods. However LiF being insoluble in dimethyl ether is present in the prepared LiBF.

Lee et al. describes in Journal of the Electrochemistry Society 145 8 2813 2818 1998 that LiCl is more soluble in dimethyl ether than LiF and that LiCl dissolved in the solution can easily form highly soluble 1 1 mole ratio complex with a variety of boron based organic anion acceptors. No effort is reported as to the separation of resulting complex as a pure salt nor is BFdescribed as the anion acceptor.

In view of the failure of any known salt to adequately satisfy the requirements for an alkali metal ion battery salt there exists a need for a new salt produced by a method of production that yields a high purity salt in scaleable quantities.

A composition is provided as a salt having the formula MBFXwhere M is an alkali metal cation or a quaternary organic ammonium cation n 1 2 or 3 and X is the halide chloride bromide or iodide. A lithium salt has several characteristics making the composition well suited for inclusion within a lithium ion battery.

A process for forming an alkali metal fluorohaloborate salt includes the preparation of a boron trifluoride etherate in an organic solvent. An alkali metal halide salt or a quaternary organic ammonium halide salt where the halide is chloride bromide or iodide is suspended in the solution and reacted with boron trifluoride etherate to form an alkali metal or quaternary ammonium fluorohaloborate. The fluorohaloborate so produced is collected as a solid from the solution. The process yields fluorohaloborates of sufficient purity to be used directly in battery applications.

The present invention has utility in non aqueous electrochemical cells. The inventive composition has the formula MBFX I where M is RRRRN an alkali metal cation of lithium sodium potassium or cesium n is an integer 1 2 or 3 X is a halide chloride bromide or iodide and each of R R Rand Ris independently C Calkyl. The inventive composition has the attribute of forming Xupon exposure to oxygen. Within a lithium ion battery oxygen is released during overcharge. This inventive attribute has the advantage of protecting a non aqueous electrolyte battery from cathodic overcharge exotherms. Additionally Xin electrolyte solution is reducible to X during a subsequent discharge process to return the cell to a stable state. Additionally it is appreciated that an inventive composition has applications as a synthetic reagent operative as an oxygen getter and halogen X donor.

A typical process for producing an inventive fluorohaloborate I includes the preparation of a boron trifluoride etherate solution in an organic solvent. To this solution a dry salt of the formula MX is added in appropriate stoichiometry. For n 1 2 or 3 the reaction MX BF MBFX 1 MF II or for n 3 BX MF MBFX III where M X and n are as defined with respect to I . The salt and the boron trifluoride etherate solutions are preferably prepared such that water is absent or at least present only in trace amounts.

It is appreciated that salts MX are soluble in neat boron trifluoride organic adduct complex and as such are usable absent an organic solvent. Suspension of the slightly soluble salt MX or MF in neat boron trifluoride or BXorganic adduct complex or a boron the organic adduct complex solution is reacted to yield the inventive alkali metal fluorohaloborate. Typical reaction temperatures range from 0 150 C. The resulting inventive alkali metal fluorohaloborate has considerable solubility in a solution of or neat boron trifluoride or BXorganic adduct complex. A purified form of the inventive composition is obtained by filtering to remove unreacted salt MX or MF and then concentrating the solution or neat boron trifluoride or BXorganic adduct complex to crystallize the inventive composition. Subsequent purification is optionally performed by techniques conventional to the art illustratively including solvent extraction and recrystallization.

An inventive fluorohaloborate synthetic reaction is generally carried out with heating preferably heating to solvent reflux. The reaction time depends on the temperature selected. The reaction is generally allowed to continue for from 4 to 10 hours. However it is appreciated that reaction at room temperature or below occurs with a corresponding increase in reaction time. More preferably the reaction is carried out in a pressurized vessel and at elevated temperatures from 80 to 110 C. Excess MX or MF is separated by filtering with the resulting solution being concentrated. The concentrated solution is added to diethyl ether in which the composition I has low solubility such that the composition I is precipitated filtered and washed with diethyl ether. The proportion of MX or MF in the final product I is typically less than 2 by weight preferably less than 1 . The final product also is characterized by low proportions of acid impurities low moisture and low proportions of heavy metals.

A boron trifluoride or BXorganic adduct complex such as BFetherate or BCletherate is readily prepared by dissolution of pure boron trifluoride or boron trichloride complex with a solvent or alternatively produced by bubbling gaseous BFor BClinto an organic solvent. A boron trifluoride or BXorganic adduct complex operative herein includes a coordinate covalent bond between boron trifluoride or BXand an aprotic heteroatom containing species such that the heteroatom containing species forms a suitable leaving group after reaction. Preferably the heteroatom containing species is volatile under reaction conditions between a complex and a metal alkoxy or an ester. Heteroatom containing species that forms a portion of a boron trifluoride complex according to the present invention illustratively include C Calkyl O C Calkyl tetrahydrofuran a C Cdialkoxy of a C Calkane and C Calkyl S C Calkyl . Specific examples of heteroatom containing species include diethyl ether tetrahydrofuran diethoxyethane and dimethylthioether.

The organic solvent is selected to itself form a complex with boron trifluoride or BXor solubilize such a complex. The solvent is a single or a mixture of aprotic solvents where aprotic solvents operative herein illustratively include dimethylcarbonate C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl a C Calkaline carbonate a C Cdialkoxy of a C Calkane a C Cester of a C Ccarboxylic acid a C Calkyl tetrahydrofuran and mixtures thereof. Specific examples of aprotic solvents include dimethyl carbonate diethyl carbonate ethyl methyl carbonate methyl propyl carbonate propylene carbonate ethylene carbonate 1 2 dimethoxyethane 1 2 diethoxyethane methyl acetate gamma butyrolactone ethyl acetate methyl propionate ethyl propionate methyl butyrate ethyl butyrate dimethyl sulfoxides dioxolane sulfolane 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone cetonitrile acrylonitrile tetrahydrofuran 2 methyltetrahydrofuran and mixtures thereof. Preferably the solvent is selected to dissolve the salt MX or MF. The volume ratio of the solvent to boron trifluoride organic adduct complex is typically from 1 to 20 and preferably from 1 to 10.

In the instance when the inventive compound is LiBFCl dimethoxyethane represents a preferred solvent in which hydrous LiCl is added to dimethoxyethane and stirred to promote LiCl dissolution. Completely dried LiCl is added to dimethoxyethane and stirred to promote its dissolution. The excess LiCl is suspended in the solution. Optionally LiCl is suspended in dimethoxyethane and this suspension is added to a neat BForganic adduct complex or to a solution of BForganic adduct complex or BFgas is bubbled into the suspension. The amount of BForganic adduct complex used is typically a stoichiometric equivalent to that of LiCl. Preferably a small excess of BForganic adduct complex is present. More preferably the molar ratio of BForganic adduct complex to LiCl is between 0.80 to 1.2 inclusive. The molar ratio of BForganic adduct complex to LiCl is most preferably from 1 to 1.05 inclusive. For MBFXand MBFXthe molar ratios are double and triple respectively those detailed above for LiBFCl with MX replacing LiCl.

A particular advantage of the inventive composition I in non aqueous electrolyte batteries is the propensity to reduce gas generation at the cathode during overcharging. While this advantage is further illustrated with respect to LiBFCl in a lithium ion battery it is appreciated that this advantageous property is found throughout the group of composition I . When a cathode is overcharged oxygen species having high oxidative potential are released from transition metal oxide cathodes. The exothermic release of oxidative oxygen species creates the potential for a thermal runaway reaction.

Propensity of sodium ion batteries towards thermal runaway reactions and the flammability of molten sodium upon cell failure are largely responsible for the limited acceptance of such batteries. NaBFXwhere n is 1 2 or 3 and represents an attractive electrolyte in sodium cells.

In the context of lithium ion batteries LiBFXwhere n is 1 2 or 3 reacts with oxygen species associated with cathode overcharge to create a less reactive and more soluble chlorine Cl Bror Iin the electrolyte solution that are amenable to reversible reduction to halide ions during a subsequent discharge process. In this way LiBFXserves as an electronic shuttle species to protect a battery cathode from overcharge. A greater safety margin thus results from a conventional non aqueous electrolyte battery containing an inventive fluorohaloborate. As a result an inventive fluorohaloborate I improves the performance of electrochemical devices such as battery cells capacitors double layer capacitors electrolytic cells and supercapacitors. A carbon inventive electrolyte borate I carbon double layer capacitor is a particularly preferred double layer capacitor according to the present invention.

An inventive halogenated borate is solvated to create an operative electrolyte. The solvent is a single or preferably a mixture of aprotic solvents where aprotic solvents operative herein illustratively include dimethylcarbonate C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl a C Calkaline carbonate a C Cdialkoxy of a C Calkane a C Cester of a C Ccarboxylic acid a C Calkyl tetrahydrofurans and mixtures thereof. Specific examples of aprotic solvents include dimethyl carbonate diethyl carbonate ethyl methyl carbonate methyl propyl carbonate propylene carbonate ethylene carbonate 1 2 dimethoxyethane 1 2 diethoxyethane methyl acetate gamma butyrolactone ethyl acetate methyl propionate ethyl propionate methyl butyrate ethyl butyrate dimethyl sulfoxides dioxolane sulfolane 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone cetonitrile acrylonitrile tetrahydrofuran 2 methyltetrahydrofuran and mixtures thereof. According to the present invention electrolyte solvent is a mixture of at least one and preferably three solvents that function synergistically to solubilize an inventive halogenated borate promote thermal stability and enhance ionic conductivity. Preferably at least one of the solvents is an alkaline carbonate and a second solvent is C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl . More preferably the alkaline carbonate is a C Calkaline carbonate. Still more preferably a lactone is present in the solvent mixture. Most preferably the weight ratio of alkaline carbonate to C Calkyl OC O O C Calkyl is from 0.1 to 10 1.

The present invention is further detailed by way of the following non limiting examples. These examples are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention but rather to detail specific aspects thereof.

In a glove box having a moisture level less than 20 ppm 4.26 g 0.03 mol of BFetherate is diluted with 20 ml of dimethoxyethane and placed in a Teflon reactor to which 1.27 g 0.03 mol of anhydrous LiCl is added with stirring. Small bubbles of diethyl ether immediately appear on the surface of LiCl crystals and the LiCl starts to dissolve. The mixture is stirred for 16 hours at 40 C. Any residual LiCl is filtered out. The filtrate is concentrated under reduced pressure to 6 ml cooled to 20 C. and poured into 30 ml diethyl ether. The solid LiBFCl precipitate is filtered and washed with diethyl ether followed by drying for 1 hour in a flow of nitrogen and then at 100 110 C. under vacuum for 8 hours. A total of 2.61 g 79 of theory of LiBFCl is obtained.

Crystallographic structure of the salt prepared above is characterized by X ray diffraction with FeKa radiation. compares X ray diffraction patterns of inventive LiBFCl and prior art LiBF. It is indicated that these two salts have very similar crystallographic structure. However substitution of chloride for one fluoride in LiBFresults in all diffraction peaks shifting slightly lower in 20 and two peaks at 18 and 22 degree disappeared. These results suggest that LiBFCl has larger cell parameters than LiBF. NMR spectra are analyzed using D6 acetone as the solvent.

The procedure of Example 1 is repeated with the substitution of 3.09 g 0.03 mole of anhydrous NaBr for LiCl to yield 6.4 g of NaBFBr.

The procedure of Example 1 is repeated with the substitution of 4.98 g 0.03 mol of anhydrous KI for LiCl to yield 10.2 g of NaBFBr.

The procedure of Example 1 is repeated with 40 ml dimethyoxyethane and the substitution of 12.6 g 0.06 mol of CH NBr for LiCl to yield 6.6 g of CH NBFBr.

The procedure of Example 1 is repeated with the substitution of 3.53 g 0.03 mol of BClfor BF and 0.78 g 0.03 mol of LiF for LiCl to yield 3.25 g of LiBFCl.

In a glove box having a moisture level less than 20 ppm an electrolytic solution of 1.0 mol LiBFCl salt per kilogram solvent is prepared in a 1 1 3 wt. mixture of ethylene carbonate EC gamma butyrolactone GBL and ethylmethyl carbonate EMC . Ionic conductivities of the solution at various temperatures are measured and listed in Table 1.

A freshly scratched Al wire having a 0.1 cm diameter is used as the working electrode to determine anodic ability of the electrolyte. shows current response with respect to the potential. In the first sweep the current is increased initially with the potential but immediately suppressed and in the following sweeps the current is low. These results indicate that the inventive electrolyte passivates Al well at high potentials and the salt is electrochemically stable against high potentials. A small broad peak of anodic currents at from 5 to 6 V vs. Li Li is noted that is associated with mild oxidization of chloride in the LiBFCl salt.

In a glove box having a moisture level less than 20 ppm a Li graphite cell is assembled using the solution prepared in Example 6 as the electrolyte. The cell is cycled at a constant current rate of 0.1 C by discharging the cell from open circuit voltage to 0.002 V and then charging the cell to 1.5 V. shows a plot of the cell voltage versus capacity in the first cycle. It is noted that the cell voltage first passes two short plateaus from open circuit voltage to 0.5 V as shown in inset and then displays long plateaus with an increase in the capacity. The latter plateaus reversibly return as the cell is charged. This feature is a characteristic of lithium ions intercalating and deintercalating with graphite. Cycling efficiency of the first cycle is 85 and increased to nearly 100 and remained stable in the further cycles. The results above indicate that with the electrolyte a protective solid electrolyte interphase forms on the surface of graphite and lithium ions are reversibly cycled with graphite.

Using the same materials described above in Examples 7 and 8 a graphite LiNiCoOcell is assembled and cycled at 0.5 C between 2.5 V and 4.1 V. shows discharge capacities of the cell at room temperature and at 60 C. respectively. It indicates that LiBFC1 based electrolytes are suitable for use in Li ion batteries.

Patent documents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. These documents and publications are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each individual document or publication was specifically and individually incorporated herein by reference.

The foregoing description is illustrative of particular embodiments of the invention but is not meant to be a limitation upon the practice thereof. The following claims including all equivalents thereof are intended to define the scope of the invention.

