---

title: Metadata schema for interpersonal communications management systems
abstract: A system and method for generating, managing and accessing a schema that facilitates maximizing utility of a managed communication is provided. The system provides a computer-based system for creating, accessing and/or managing a schema employed in utility-optimizing communication management. The system includes computer components for receiving communication related data and storing such communication related data, inferences concerning such data, probabilities and/or probability distributions associated with such data in an extensible, portable, data schema. The schema can facilitate making utility optimizing communication management decisions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08249060&OS=08249060&RS=08249060
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08249060
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060811
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 187 078 entitled METADATA SCHEMA FOR INTERPERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS and filed on Jun. 28 2002. The entirety of the aforementioned application is incorporated herein by reference. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 464 151 entitled METADATA SCHEMA FOR INTERPERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS and filed on Aug. 11 2006 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 464 155 entitled METADATA SCHEMA FOR INTERPERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS and filed on Aug. 11 2006 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 464 157 entitled METADATA SCHEMA FOR INTERPERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS and filed on Aug. 11 2006.

The present invention relates generally to communication management and more particularly to the definition creation management transmission and access of critical information about the nature timing and context of attempted communications.

Conventionally it has been difficult if possible at all to encode and execute expressive policies that allow communications systems to maximize utility of communications for participants within and across multiple communication devices entry points modalities and times based on the preferences of contactor s and contactee s in a manner that takes into consideration a multitude of real world factors about the nature and context of the communications and other factors associated with communications.

The following presents a simplified summary of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The subject invention facilitates communication management and provides for defining creating managing transmitting and accessing critical information about the nature and context of attempted communications. The invention makes use of standardized expressive communications metadata containing key value attributes that facilitate optimizing utility of managed communications within or across multiple modalities or devices based on preferences of contactor s and or contactee s . The invention takes into consideration contexts identities locations initial and preferred channels or modalities of an interaction content costs goals device availabilities participant availabilities and or availability forecasts and other information about the communication. Communication metadata also referenced herein as communication schema in accordance with the subject invention contains one or more fields for encoding multiple dimensions of information associated with a communication attempt by a person or agent including data on identity intentions situation etc. of the contactor s e.g. the entity initiating the communication and or contactee s e.g. the entity being contacted and or the nature of a task or content of a communication attempt. The communication schema is designed for employment in automated and or manual decision making in a context and preference centric communication system. The schema provides a standard set of data appended with communications that facilitates routing scheduling re scheduling alerting and display of the communication or information about the communication according to preferences and policies established by the contactee s and or contactor s . In some aspects of the system the communication schema is used in tools that seek to optimize the expected utility of managed communications based on a number of different attributes or relevant data e.g. preferences contexts and or other communication related data .

The subject invention takes into consideration real world factors that include information about identities or group memberships of one or more participants history of communications presence and or availabilities of participants initial selected modality and or entry point explicit or implicit purpose of the communications access to encoding and or rendering devices of participants situations of participants for example. There are often multiple means of communication available to individuals or entities in different settings. Also recipients of communications may wish to accept reject or defer communications until a more convenient time and or redirect them to another channel or device. The present invention contemplates that an ideal channel and timing of communications depends partly on the context content and goals of the communication identities and preferences of the contactee s and contactor s .

The invention provides an architecture and an ability to encode or infer identity and context and content sensitive communication policies that schedule route and or display information to people or entities attempting to initiate communications based on preferences. Conventionally it has been difficult if possible at all to dynamically maximize if when and how communications are routed. There has not been a means for optimizing in a rich manner the utility of communications based on preferences context and other factors associated with communications. Such utility maximizing processing if attempted at all has been complicated by the lack of consistent portable data for use in expressing the preferences important aspects of the situations of the contactor and contactees and the nature and time criticality of the communications.

The challenge and opportunity for innovation with rich communication management systems is especially highlighted by the explosion of multiple communication modalities and devices extending from email and instant messaging to telephone calls and real time video conferencing. This explosion now includes the embedding of communication entry points into multiple devices and potentially into a variety of software applications. For example computer users editing a text document may desire to discuss a recent edit with the person who made that edit by invoking a simple point and click gesture. It has not been possible conventionally to encode rich policies that handle communications across multiple entry points devices modalities and times as a function of the nature and context of the communicators and communications and to harness the rich policies or decision procedures to make dynamic decisions about such actions as selection of the most appropriate channel device medium route and timing of the communications via automated rescheduling based on predicted or known availabilities of the contactee s .

Attempts to handle communications in a more context and content sensitive manner if attempted at all has been complicated by the lack of consistent expressive portable metadata about communicators and communications conventionally. The present invention addresses many of the shortcomings associated with conventional communications schemes. The invention provides for an expressive cross device cross application communications schemata that encodes critical metadata about the nature and context of interpersonal or human machine communications as well as methods for instantiating transmitting accessing interpreting and storing such a consistent expressive portable metadata communications schema that is invaluable in a rich preference centric communications system.

One technique for optimizing the value or expected utility of communications employs probability and utility theoretic methods to maximize the expected utility of the communication to the contactor and or the contactee or that seeks to provide different amounts of value to the contactor or contactee based on a predefined or dynamically computed target weighting of value among the participants function that captures the value of the communication to both contactor and contactee. In such an approach a Bayesian analysis of a rich set of evidential data associated with an attempted communication is analyzed to generate probability distributions over alternative outcomes and a communications policy is selected that maximizes some objective function capturing the expected utilities of participants. Such evidential data includes information linked with certainty or uncertainty to the preferences of participants when such preferences are unknown context s of communicating parties groups to which communicating parties belong and other information. Such information is not always complete thus inferences concerning missing pieces of information are made. The present invention facilitates storing such a rich set of data and storing the inferences made about such missing pieces of data in a manner that facilitates optimizing utility of a communication.

In one example of the present invention preference data context data communication channel data and or other relevant data is received by a schema generator that produces an XML schema suitable for use by a communication manager that employs Bayesian techniques in conjunction with a cost benefit decision analysis to predict the utility of different communications undertaken at different times between different communicating parties via different communication channels under different communication conditions. Such an XML schema can be stored for example in a binary large object BLOB that is accessible from distributed computer components that cooperate in identifying selecting and managing a communication that considers the above listed conditions. Making available the rich set of data inferences made about missing pieces of data and inferences that can be made about utility optimizing decisions associated with the data facilitates managing communications to achieve the desired utility optimization.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects of the invention are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the invention may be employed and the present invention is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features of the invention may become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The present invention is now described with reference to the drawings where like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It may be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate description of the present invention.

As used in this application the term computer component is intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a computer component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be computer components. One or more computer components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a computer component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

It is to be appreciated that various aspects of the present invention employ representations of deterministic policies specified as functions or rules that take as arguments contextual information details about the nature of the participants and the content or task at hand. One example of the present invention also employs technologies associated with facilitating inference and decision making under uncertainty and optimization of expected utility and or minimization of expected costs. Thus statistical inference can be performed with models constructed by hand from data with machine learning methods or by a mixture of machine learning and human assessment. Intelligent interpersonal communication systems can be centered completely on deterministic representations specifications and polices or be based completely on inferential systems that reason under uncertainty and perform decision theoretic analysis of the best policies. The latter systems tend to be deeper and more precise as they can represent uncertainty in observations about context goals and content. However they also can pose more challenging assessment and user configuration tasks. Variants can be constructed of interpersonal communication systems that draw on both deterministic policies and probabilistic methods. In some configurations depending on the context an inferential procedure or deterministic rule may be used.

Context can be abstracted by examining for example a communication sender the relationship of the sender to a user the groups in which the communication sender is a member the time of day at which the sender is attempting to communicate the task s with which the user and or sender are engaged the age of project s to which the user and or sender are engaged the sender and or user location and so on. Thus multiple attributes concerning people including their preferences contexts tasks and priorities are analyzed to facilitate establishing and adapting communication policies for people in the collections.

A variety of machine learning systems methodologies including Bayesian learning methods that search over alternative dependency structures and apply a score such as the Bayesian Information Criteria etc. Bayesian classifiers and other statistical classifiers including decision tree learning methods support vector machines linear and non linear regression and neural network representations can be employed to build and update inferential models.

Turning now to a computer based system for generating a schema is illustrated. The system includes a data receiver that receives information associated with relevant data to facilitate communications between parties wherein the relevant data can include one or more attributes that relate to a set of important information for decisions about the processing routing of communications whereby decision making is made in pursuit of timing sharing of content and the device modality channel employed that maximizes either the contactees or both the contactors and contactees expected utility. The relevant data is part of a rich data set that can be received by the data receiver and that can be stored in the schema . The schema is generated by a schema generator that stores the relevant data . The schema is accessible by a communication management system to facilitate selecting a communication channel a communication time and or a communication group that optimizes utility of a communication.

The schema is employed in utility optimizing communication management and in one example of the present invention the schema is an XML Extensible Markup Language schema. In another example of the present invention the schema is stored in a BLOB binary large object .

The relevant data also referred to as data can include preference data concerning how communicating parties prefer to communicate with those preferences varying with respect to for example various communicating parties various times various channels and various topics of communication. Therefore the data includes but is not limited to preferences concerning the time of day for communicating e.g. early morning business hours evening late night sleeping hours the time of the week for communicating e.g. Monday through Friday Weekend Holiday Vacation identity of contactors e.g. employer employees critical colleague colleague peers nuclear family extended family close friends friends acquaintances others hardware currently available or available within a time horizon of a communication attempt e.g. desktop laptop home computer preferred software e.g. email word processing calendaring preferred communication policy e.g. low priority medium priority high priority breakthrough priority and preferred interruptability e.g. do not interrupt while focused on work only interrupt while not focused for example. Thus one example of the present invention facilitates generating a schema that stores such data and or inferences concerning such data . The schema facilitates employing such stored data in utility optimizing channel management decisions. The schema generator can parse the preferences extract data that corresponds to element values and or attribute values for elements and attributes identified in the schema . Also the schema generator can identify data for which new elements and or attribute definitions are produced for the schema .

The relevant data can include context information that captures information about the situation s in which a communicating party is found and the environment in which a communicating party operates for example. The data therefore can generally be related to observations about communicating parties. For example observations concerning the type of activity in which a party is involved e.g. on task not on task location of the party e.g. office home car shower calendar e.g. appointment status appointment availability history of communications e.g. have replied to email in the past have spoken to on the telephone recently the utility of the interaction the duration of the interaction background ambient noise at a location number of hours at work that day and attentional status e.g. high focus focus light focus conversation with another person light activity may be captured by relevant data. The data also relates to information including but not limited to hardware data e.g. current anticipated capacity current anticipated bandwidth current anticipated availability current anticipated status current anticipated cost revision data metadata software data e.g. current anticipated capacity current anticipated bandwidth current anticipated availability current anticipated status current anticipated cost revision data metadata and observed data. The schema generator can parse the data extract data that corresponds to element values and or attribute values for elements and attributes identified in the schema . Also the schema generator can identify data for which new elements and or attribute definitions are produced for the schema .

On some occasions the potential set of relevant data that would be useful in decision making about the nature and timing of a communication may be incomplete e.g. video analysis data unavailable because video camera broken . Thus the schema generator can generate and the schema can store data associated with probabilistic inferences about the states of the data typically via the generation of a probability distribution over the states . Such inferences can be employed in reasoning concerning an optimal communication e.g. optimal channel time parties based on incomplete data. Thus the data can include information that facilitates producing probabilities associated with a missing data element. By way of illustration the schema can contain information for predicting the likelihood that a communicating party is in a high attentional state a contextual property even though a variable capturing a more precise information about a user s activities such as data obtained via real time gaze tracking information is unavailable.

The data can also include information concerning the long term and or acute dynamically changing communication needs of a communicating party. By way of illustration a communicating party may assign a high cost of interruption for some period of time in a decision analytic system or assert in a rule based variant that they desire to have no interruptions for the next hour e.g. hold everything unless high critical on this task or an hour from now . One example of the present invention therefore facilitates generating a schema that stores context data and or inferences. The schema thus facilitates using context data and inferences in utility optimizing channel management decisions.

The schema can also store information that is to be applied to data stored in the schema that is derived from the data . For example one or more communication policies that can be applied to a communication can be stored in the schema . Such policies can include for example progression lists of preferred communication hardware to which communications at certain times or from certain parties are to be directed. By way of illustration a communication policy titled breakthrough may be stored in the schema where that policy includes a progression list of communication devices to which a user prefers emergency messages from a special group of people to be directed. For example a breakthrough communication policy can be established and stored in the schema whereby during the late stages of a high risk pregnancy any communication from the pregnant person a set of proxies e.g. immediate family of pregnant person or medical personnel associated with the pregnancy will be successively routed through the most immediately available high priority communication devices e.g. cell phone pager land line phone runner until the contactee is contacted regardless of the context of the contactee e.g. in a meeting . Policy assignment can be automated via the specification of higher level policies that assign or modify rules about the handling of communications based in specific states. For example an obstetrician may construct a policy about the handling of incoming calls from all patients who are pregnant woman specifying that when any pregnant patient is in the last month of pregnancy to automatically assign their calls to the category of real time breakthrough communications. As another example a user may desire to define a policy that assigns incoming communications as a being in the class of breakthrough communication when the person calling is someone they are scheduled to meet with in two hours as gleaned automatically from their online calendar. By way of further illustration a communication policy titled low priority can be stored in the schema whereby any communication from a certain group of people will be routed to a list of low priority communication devices e.g. voicemail email regardless of the context of the contactee e.g. idle at desk .

In one example of the present invention the communication policies can be implemented based on a logical TRUE result produced by a logical OR of one or more context data values. By way of illustration the low priority communication policy can be invoked if the communication is from party A party B or party C OR the time is either time T1 or time T2. By way of further illustration the breakthrough communication policy can be invoked if the communication is from party D party E or party F OR if the communication concerns topic X or topic Y. Thus the logical OR of different values retrieved from the data and stored in the schema can be examined to determine whether to employ a specific communication policy stored in the schema .

One application of the schema is by a communication management system that employs Bayesian techniques to select a communication channel that will optimize utility of a communication. Since such techniques can perform reasoning under uncertainty and since the data can be incomplete the schema can store data inferences concerning missing pieces of data inferences concerning utility optimizing decisions cost data associated with utility optimizing decisions and benefit data associated with utility optimizing decisions. Furthermore since such reasoning under uncertainty and Bayesian techniques can employ statistical analysis of data the schema can also store not only data from the data but also probability distributions associated with such data.

It is noted that although relevant data has been described in various aspects to facilitate communications other forms of the data may be provided in accordance with the present invention. For example relevant data can include notions of location and other factors such as 

Turning now to a computer based system for generating a schema is illustrated with a contactor and a contactee . Thus the data receiver receives the relevant data from one or more contactors and one or more contactees . The contactors and the contactees can include but are not limited to human entities and computer components. By way of illustration a person A for whom a communication will be managed by a system that employs the schema can have preferences and context data and or other data and thus the data receiver can receive preferences and context concerning person A. By way of further illustration an automated dialing process B for whom communications will be managed by the system that employs the schema can have preferences and context and or other data and thus the data receiver can receive preferences and context concerning the automated dialing process B. While one contactor and one contactee are illustrated it is to be appreciated that a greater number of communicating parties can have relevant data that are processed by the schema generator and stored in the schema .

Turning now to a computer based system for generating and accessing a schema is illustrated. The system includes a communication manager that selects one or more communication channels that will optimize utility of a communication between a contactor and a contactee based at least in part on information retrieved from a schema . In one example of the present invention the communication manager feeds back communication channel selection information to the schema generator which can in turn update the schema based on the communication channel selection.

The schema can store information concerning the communication channels . A communication can be implemented over a variety of channels including but not limited to telephone channels computer channels fax channels paging channels and personal channels for example. The telephone channels can include but are not limited to POTS plain old telephone system telephony cellular telephony satellite telephony and Internet telephony channels. The computer channels can include but are not limited to email collaborative editing instant messaging network meetings calendaring and devices employed in home processing and or networking. The personal channels can include but are not limited to videoconferencing messengering and face to face meeting. Thus one example of the present invention facilitates receiving information concerning such communication channels and generating a schema that stores such communication channel data where the schema facilitates employing such stored data in utility optimizing channel management decisions. One manner in which the schema can store information concerning such a variety of communication channels is by defining XML elements that can be stored in an XML file. Thus the schema generator can parse the communication channel data for information to populate instances of such defined elements and attributes.

In accordance with one specific implementation of the subject invention while reviewing a document in a shared authoring setting an individual or entity can identify certain subset s of the document e.g. highlight particular text and the subject invention invokes a service that provides for communication via the communications schema rich information relating to the subset s . The schema can include for example information about channel s of delivery receiving device e.g. desktop computer software type document pointer text pointer and or the text itself that is the focus of the communications. It is to be appreciated that a variety of software applications e.g. word processing programs database programs messenger programs graphics programs application development programs browsers business programs . . . can employ such aspect of the subject invention. Moreover it is to be appreciated that such aspect can be incorporated into the software upon development or become operative in conjunction therewith e.g. plug in standalone application background application foreground application . . . .

Concerning utility of a communication that can be managed by the communication manager the value of a current potential communication can be evaluated by considering a measure of the history of utility of communication attributes of the communication that can be stored as metadata e.g. intended focus of communication nature of communication channel reliability of communication channel and or combinations thereof. Such an expected utility can be computed through the use of probabilistic models such as Bayesian networks and decision trees that provide probability distributions over outcomes based on observations or attributes associated with the communication setting and so on. Coupling probabilistic inference models with preferences and employing the principles of maximum expected utility for optimization provides a useful method for computing the value of different communication actions. In one example of the present invention utility represents communication effectiveness correlated to adherence to user preferences. Such effectiveness can be measured by factors including but not limited to reliability achieved on the communication channel quantity of information content transferred quality of information content transferred and relevancy of information content transferred.

An expected utility function takes into consideration probability distributions over future outcomes and user preferences while reasoning under uncertainty. An example expected utility function can be calculated using 

where p s d c represents the probability of achieving a future state sgiven a decision dconcerning situation c capturing communication channel parameters nature of the contactor and a context for the contactee. Each individual outcome state s s represents a possible match of preferences and or other data to related communication parameters. The function u s d represents the utility of state safter the decision dhas been made.

Assume that the present invention considers two possible utilities Uand U. Based on selecting particular communication parameters e.g. time media location the system 10 can compute Pand P the probabilities of achieving Uand U where P 1 P. Although two utility states are identified it is to be appreciated that a greater number of utility states can be employed with the present invention. The expected utility of a decision dis then .

A high utility can be associated with for example a large amount of valuable information being transferred. A low utility can be associated with for example a small amount of valuable information being transferred. Similarly a low cost can be associated with a low drain on the attentional resources of the contactee as might be captured by a low interruptability factor e.g. user does not have to leave important meeting or shut down an application and with a low amount of hanging e.g. the number type and or importance of people and or resources left waiting for the return of the attentional resource of the user . A high cost can be associated with a significant drain on the attentional resources of the contactee as might be associated with an action of high interruptability e.g. pulling a person from an important meeting leaving many important people waiting. The utilities can take into consideration both the value and the disruptiveness of communication outcomes combining the costs and benefits in a single assessment or explicitly breaking out the cost and benefits of the communication and providing a means for coupling the two together e.g. employing an additive multi linear model summing costs and benefits after selective weighting of the separate factors .

The utility of the communication can be evaluated according to formulae that consider the cost of the communication and the value of the communication as viewed from the points of view of both a sender and a receiver. An exemplary formula can take the form utility cost value cost value 

The utility calculations may weight the costs and or benefits to the contactors and or contactees differently. By way of illustration the value can be computed via a combination function f of other functions g and h that operate separately on the costs and the benefits to the contactor the sender and the contactee recipient of the initial communication as follows utility value1 cost3 value2 cost4 .

By way of further illustration consider a case where the value is a function of the difference of the costs and the benefits to the contactor and the contactee as follows utility value1 cost3 value2 cost4 .

One example of such a difference function employs a multi linear weighted combination of the separate terms for contactee and contactor utility value1 cost3 value2 cost4 .

For such a formulation diminishing wto zero removes the preferences of the contactor and makes communication decisions depend on the preferences of the contactee. Diminishing wto zero makes communication decisions depend on the preferences or other considerations of the contactor. Such adjustments to the weights which can lead to diminutions and or enhancements of the relative importance of the contactor and or contactee costs and or benefits. Similarly weights can be affected by context e.g. time location activity .

The cost to the sender cost can be analyzed by examining a set of cost factors cost a b c . . . that can include but are not limited to the cost of making a connection instantly the cost of making a connection at a later time the cost of employing a particular channel and or set of channels and the cost of not making a connection where the costs may include actual costs and or expected costs. Such costs can be measured by actual and or opportunity cost in time communication resources and or human resources.

The value to the sender value can also be analyzed by examining a set of value factors value m n o . . . that can include but are not limited to the value of making an instant connection the value of making a later connection and the value of employing a particular channel and or set of channels where the values can include actual values and or expected values. The values can similarly be measured by actual and or opportunity cost of time communication resources dollars and or human resources. The expected costs and or expected values can be computed through deterministic processing and or reasoning under uncertainty.

The cost to the receiver cost can be analyzed by examining a set of cost factors cost x y z . . . that can include but are not limited to the cost of making a connection instantly the cost of making a connection at a later time the cost of employing a particular channel and or set of channels and the cost of not making a connection where the costs can include actual costs and or expected costs. Such costs and or values can be measured by actual cost in time money human resources and or opportunity cost in time money human resources and or communication resources for example.

The value to the receiver value can also be analyzed by examining a set of value factors value p q r . . . that can include but are not limited to the value of making an instant connection the value of making a later connection and the value of employing a particular channel and or set of channels where the values can include actual values and or expected values. The expected costs and or expected values can be computed through reasoning under uncertainty. The costs can vary over time thus a first set of costs costTcomputed for a first time Tmay not be equal to a second set of costs costTcomputed for a second time T. Similarly the values can vary over time and a first set of values valueTmay not be equal to a second set of values valueT. Thus rather than producing a single value the systems described thus far and described in more detail below can produce a set of expected utilities for the communications via a plurality of communication channels.

Utility optimization in connection with the subject invention can be based at least in part on a variety of other factors such as for example 1 whether two or more communicating parties are concurrently engaged in a related activity 2 whether two or more communicating parties are likely to become concurrently engaged in a related activity 3 whether two or more communicating parties are concurrently engaged in a similar activity 4 whether two or more communicating parties are likely to become concurrently engaged in a similar activity 5 whether two or more communicating parties are concurrently processing one or more related documents 6 whether two or more communicating parties are likely to concurrently process one or more related documents 7 whether two or more communicating parties are concurrently viewing one or more related documents 8 whether two or more communicating parties are likely to concurrently view one or more related documents 9 whether two or more communicating parties are concurrently engaged in a shared project 10 whether two or more communicating parties are likely to become concurrently engaged in a shared project 11 whether two or more communicating parties are scheduled to communicate within a pre defined period of time 12 whether two or more communicating parties have communicated within a pre defined period of time 13 whether two or more communicating parties are scheduled to meet within a pre defined period of time 14 whether two or more communicating parties have met within a pre defined period of time 15 whether a communicating party has engaged in one or more pre defined activities of interest within a pre defined period of time 16 whether a communicating party is likely to engage in one or more pre defined activities of interest within a pre defined period of time 17 whether a communicating party has purchased one or more pre defined items of interest 18 whether a communicating party has registered an interest in one or more pre defined items of interest 19 the degree to which a communicating party is trusted by one or more other communicating parties.

It is to be appreciated that the aforementioned list of factors that can be employed in connection with the subject invention can be considered individually or a subset of the factors considered concurrently. Moreover it is understood that the above list is merely exemplary and should not be considered exhaustive of the variety of factors that could be considered in connection with facilitating utility optimization in connection with the subject invention. Thus one example of the present invention facilitates storing multiple sets of values and costs for various points in time in the schema .

Turning now to a computer based system that employs a schema and a communication manager that considers the reliability of a communication channel when selecting a communication channel to optimize utility of a managed communication is illustrated. The system includes a reliability analyzer that processes reliability data and employs the schema generator to store such data for subsequent utility optimizing processing. Thus the communication manager can accept a reliability input that includes reliability data stored in the schema . The reliability analyzer and the communication manager thus access the schema when determining which if any communication channels to employ for a communication. Accessing the schema can include generating a query that extracts stored data using for example XPath parsing the schema data and reading subsets of the schema data for example.

The reliability data can include but is not limited to the likelihood that a communication will be degraded e.g. portion of a communication dropped garbled the likelihood that a communication will be disconnected and the likelihood that a communication will be compromised e.g. intercepted decrypted altered . The reliability data can include the likelihoods at the time of the communication and at other available times. Reliability data can also include mean time between failure of a communication channel average failure duration on a communication channel average percent degradation of a communication channel atmospheric conditions scheduled communication channel maintenance and scheduled communication channel downtime. Thus the schema can include an element declaration like 

Factors that the reliability analyzer and or the communication manager consider when determining whether a communication will be degraded include but are not limited to the expected duration of the communication the desired communication channel s the reliability history of the desired communication channel s the cost s associated with a lost connection the cost s associated with reconnecting the attentional status and activity of a communicating party and the utility of a partially completed communication. Therefore data and or inferences concerning the data associated with such factors can be stored by the schema generated by the schema generator . Thus the schema can include an element declaration like 

Reliability data can also include cost s associated with a lost connection where such costs can vary depending on the identity of the parties the subject matter of the communication and the context of the parties. By way of illustration the cost of losing a casual conversation between friends may be lower than the cost of losing a last second communication between a trader and a stockholder. The costs associated with a lost connection include but are not limited to frustration factors monetary costs opportunity costs time delay costs and embarrassment costs. The costs also include the cost s associated with reconnecting a lost communication where such costs vary depending on the identity of the parties the subject matter of the communication and the context of the parties. The costs associated with reconnecting include but are not limited to monetary costs time delay costs resource consumption costs frustration costs and embarrassment costs e.g. having a company appear incompetent or technologically challenged . Thus the schema can include an element declaration like 

Reliability data can also include data concerning the utility of a partially completed communication. For example the goal of a first communication may be to relate a lengthy piece of highly important data between two parties where the data has no value unless it is transmitted one hundred percent intact. The utility of partially completing such a first communication is low. But the goal of a second communication may be to relate a list of small independent pieces of relatively unimportant data between two parties where each small piece of data has independent value. Thus one example of the present invention facilitates generating a schema that stores reliability data and or inferences concerning reliability data. One example of the present invention also facilitates generating a schema that can be accessed by a communication manager to facilitate employing reliability data and or inferences in utility optimizing channel management decisions. Thus the schema can include an element declaration like 

The reliability data holds information not only about a communication channel but also about a communication. Communication data includes but is not limited to reliability history of a current communication communication length and communication type. The reliability history of a communication can include data concerning whether the ongoing communication has been degraded and if so in what degree and what percent of the communication has been degraded. The communication length can include both the actual length of an ongoing communication and predictions concerning the anticipated length of a communication. Similarly the communication type can contain information concerning the actual communication type and predictions concerning related communications. Therefore one example of the present invention facilitates generating a schema that stores such communication data and or inferences concerning the communication data. The schema facilitates employing such stored data in utility optimizing channel management decisions. Thus the schema can include element declarations like 

Furthermore the schema facilitates employing the stored data and or inferences in communication management decisions that facilitate optimizing communication utility.

Another application that can be supported by the schema is time away processing. Thus illustrates a computer based system that includes a time away analyzer that processes a time away data . The schema can store data and or inferences about the time away data . Therefore the communication manager can make utility optimizing decisions concerning the communication channel s to employ for a communication based at least in part on such time away information stored in the schema . The schema can therefore include element declarations that capture the time away data. Such time away data can include but is not limited to a current time away from a task data a current time away from a computer component data a current time away from a contextual data item state a historical time away from a task data a historical time away from a computer component data a historical time away from a contextual data item state information associated with the likelihood that a person will return to a task information associated with the likelihood that a person will return to a computer component calendar information and information associated with the likelihood that a person will return to a contextual data item state.

It is to be appreciated that the systems and can be implemented as one or more computer components as that term is defined herein. It is to be further appreciated that computer executable components operable to implement the systems can be stored on computer readable media including but not limited to an ASIC application specific integrated circuit CD compact disc DVD digital video disk memory read only memory ROM random access memory RAM programmable ROM PROM floppy disk hard disk EEPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory carrier wave and memory stick.

In view of the exemplary systems shown and described above methodologies that are implemented in accordance with the present invention will be better appreciated with reference to the flow diagrams of and . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the illustrated methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the present invention is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks can in accordance with the present invention occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from that shown and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the present invention. Furthermore additional and or alternative methodologies can employ additional blocks not illustrated herein. In one example of the present invention such methodologies can be implemented as computer executable instructions and or operations which instructions and or operations can be stored on computer readable media including but not limited to an ASIC a CD a DVD a RAM a ROM a PROM an EEPROM a disk a carrier wave and a memory stick.

The data can also include functions and or parameters indicating cost of communicating at different times based on a consideration of context over time including at least one of 1 information about interruptability of one or more participants over time 2 information about the calendar or upcoming appointment structure of one or more participants and 3 information about a best communication policy and a preferred interruptability.

Thus the metadata encodes information related to how communicating parties would like to carry on a communication. Therefore a schema from which such preference data could be received can include element declarations like 

At the method receives context data from contactors and or contactees human and or computer components. The context data can include but is not limited to an activity type a location a calendar a communication history an ambient noise a time on task a gaze track data a communication needs data and an attentional status data. Thus the context data stores information about the communicating parties. Thus a schema from which such context data could be received can include element declarations like 

At the method generates a schema that facilitates employing the preference data and the context data in utility optimizing managed communication decisions. In one example of the present invention the schema is an XML schema. Thus at the method identifies elements and or attributes that capture the information available from the preferences and or context and populates an XML file with values for the elements and attributes. Such populating can be performed by parsing the available data and instantiating instances of declared elements with the available values. Since different utility optimizing decision makers e.g. channel managers can have different equations algorithms and processes and thus can have different data needs the schema that is generated at can be tailored to a specific channel manager and or can be made generic to facilitate operating with a variety of channel managers. In one example of the present invention the schema is stored in a binary large object.

The preferences received at and or the context received at can include deterministic data. However some pieces of data that may be desired for the schema may be missing. Thus at reasoning under uncertainty can be undertaken to generate inferences concerning missing data values. Furthermore at probabilities and or probability distributions associated with the preferences context and or inferences can be generated. Thus the schema generated at can store inferences concerning missing pieces of at least one of the context data and the preference data and can store probabilities and probability distributions associated with utility optimizing decisions.

The reasoning under uncertainty that occurs at can involve Bayesian techniques that generate and or process one or more Bayesian networks. Thus the schema generated at can also store one or more Bayesian networks that facilitate making a utility optimizing decision concerning the managed communication. For example a utility optimizing decision can consider the preferences and context of communicating parties to determine which channel s should be employed for the communication at what time the communication should occur and among which parties the communication should occur. Such a decision can involve the conditional probability of a first item based on evidence concerning a set of second items. A sample conditional probability calculation that can be employed by a channel manager is 

p A B C represents the probability of A given B e.g. preferences and C e.g. context . Thus the schema generated at can store the data upon which the conditional probability is predicated e.g. B C and or the conditional probability generated concerning A and can therefore include an element like 

Preferences and context are not static items. Such preferences and context can vary over time. Thus the schema generated by method can be a dynamic item that is responsive to changing preferences and context. Therefore at in one example of the present invention a determination is made concerning whether a data update is available. Such a determination can be made for example by examining a difference table to determine whether new data changes have been reported and or noted. If the determination at is YES then processing returns to where the updated data is received. If the determination at is NO then the method waits for an update. Such waiting can be performed by techniques including but not limited to sleep wakeup processing timed interval determinations interrupt processing and the like.

Turning now to a computer implemented method that accesses a schema e.g. a schema generated through method to facilitate optimizing utility of a communication is flow charted. At general initializations occur. Such initializations can include but are not limited to identifying a schema to access acquiring a schema definition locating a DTD document type declaration allocating memory establishing pointers establishing data communications acquiring resources setting variables and displaying process activity.

At a schema is accessed for example by a communication manager. Accessing the schema can include but is not limited to reading a file reading an XML file receiving the results of a database query and extracting element values and or attribute values from an XML file stored in a binary large object. While the discussion associated with primarily concerns a communication manager it is to be appreciated that a schema generated and or managed by the present invention can be accessed by other applications. At the schema is accessed and data including but not limited to a preference of a communicating party a context of a communicating party an inference concerning a preference of a communicating party and an inference concerning a context of a communicating party can be retrieved. For example values that populate instances of elements like those described above can be retrieved from one or more XML files. The data can then be employed to determine a communication time channel and group to facilitate optimizing utility of a communication. For example a utility calculation like that described above can be made based at least in part on the data retrieved at .

At communication channel data is received. Such data can be retrieved from the same schema as the data accessed at from a different schema or from a different source. For example a first schema can store preference context and channel data or a second schema can store preference and context while a third schema stores channel data and a fourth schema stores preference and context while channel data is stored in a non schema entity e.g. retrieved in real time from devices and reported directly to method . While three example storage combinations of preference context and channel data are described it is to be appreciated that a greater and or lesser number of such combinations can be employed with the present invention. As described above communication channel data can include but is not limited to channel identity channel capacity channel availability channel cost and the like. Thus data retrieved from an XML file that includes an element declaration like 

could be for example cellphone1 1 Mbps 75 0.03. These values could represent for example the name of a cellular telephone its data transfer rate the likelihood that it is available and the cost per minute of use. This data can be employed to determine a communication time channel and group to facilitate optimizing utility of a communication.

At a communication channel that optimizes utility of the communication is selected based at least in part on the preference the context the inferences concerning the preference the inferences concerning the context and or the communication channel data. For example a utility calculation like utility cost value cost value 

can be made on the data received at and or . The costcan be determined in one example of the present invention by considering data that includes both hardware and software data. For example the hardware data can include but is not limited to information related to what hardware is available for a communication what hardware is being employed e.g. desktop laptop PDA capabilities of that hardware e.g. memory communication bandwidth the cost of employing the hardware and the state s in which the hardware is currently functioning e.g. online offline . The hardware data can also include information concerning usage patterns that facilitate determining the likelihood that an unavailable piece of hardware will become available. The hardware data may be incomplete thus inferences concerning the value of hardware data point can be made e.g. via Bayesian processing or may have been made with the inferences being retrieved from the schema. The present invention facilitates generating managing and or accessing a schema that stores such hardware data and or inferences concerning such data. Furthermore the schema facilitates accessing the stored data and or inferences by systems and or methods that perform utility optimizing channel management by providing an extensible portable data tailored to managed communication.

The costcan also be figured by examining software data that includes information related to software that is available for a communication software that is currently being employed by potential communicating parties e.g. word processor the capabilities of that software e.g. allows collaborative editing and the state s in which that software is currently functioning e.g. running and active running but inactive . Software data can also include information concerning usage patterns that facilitate determining the likelihood that an unavailable piece of software will become available. By way of illustration historical data may be available that indicates that the average word processing session undertaken by a user is one hour. Furthermore context data may be available that indicates that the current session is over an hour. Thus an inference can be made that it is likely that the word processing session will soon terminate. Such an inference can be made in the method at and or such inferences may have been made earlier and stored in the schema. Thus one example of the present invention facilitates generating managing and or accessing a schema that stores software data and or inferences concerning the software data. The schema also facilitates employing the stored data in utility optimizing channel management decisions by providing an extensible portable data tailored to managed communication.

At a determination is made concerning whether the schema should be updated based for example on the selection of the communication channel that optimizes the utility of the communication. For example the schema may store state information e.g. which channels are being employed by what parties at what time for what purpose that can impact subsequent decisions made based on data in the schema. Therefore if the determination at is YES at the schema will be updated with for example state information and or decision information. Such decision information can include but is not limited to inferences made at context that changes based on the utility optimizing decision and probabilities determined at . The determination at can additionally and or alternatively be based on whether the schema should be updated based on a communication data associated with the communication. For example the selection of a communication channel at can impact the time at which a communication is likely to occur and its expected length. Such data can be employed in subsequent utility optimizing decisions e.g. to determine the likely availability of a channel device or party and thus the schema upon which a subsequent decision maker will rely can benefit from having such state information updated. The determination at can also include deciding whether an element and or attribute declaration should be updated. For example if data has been received from an instance of an element ten thousand times and one of the element values has never been employed in a utility calculation then the schema element declaration can be updated to remove the apparently superfluous field.

Referring now to information can be transmitted between various computer components associated with the schema generation and management functions described herein via a data packet . The schema can simplify transmitting the data packet by including element declarations like 

An exemplary data packet is shown. The data packet includes a header field that includes information such as the length and type of packet. For example the header field can indicate whether the packet is a packet type that requires a response from the receiving device. A source identifier follows the header field and includes for example an address of the computer component from which the packet originated. Following the source identifier the packet includes a destination identifier that holds for example an address of the computer component to which the packet is ultimately destined. Such source and destination identifiers can be for example globally unique identifiers URLs uniform resource locators path names and the like. A schema identifier includes information that identifies the schema with which the data packet is identified. For example a first computer component can send the data packet to a second computer component neither of which is a schema generator or a schema data store and thus the schema identifier can be employed to facilitate identifying the schema with which the data in a data field is associated. The schema identifier can be for example a globally unique identifier a URL a path name and the like. The data field in the packet includes various information intended for the receiving computer component. The data packet ends with a cyclical redundancy check CRC field that serves as an error detecting field whereby a receiving computer component can determine if it has properly received the packet . While six fields are illustrated in data packet it is to be appreciated that a greater and or lesser number of fields can be present in data packets employed by the present invention.

A context field stores information concerning the context s of the communicating parties. Such context information can include but is not limited to activity type location calendar communication history ambient noise time on task gaze tracks communication needs and attentional status. Thus context information stored in the context field is made available to utility optimizing calculations through the transmission of the packet and the related sub fields .

The sub fields can also include a group data field that holds group information including but not limited to group identity data group preference data and group context data. The sub fields can also include a time away data field that holds time away information including but not limited to how long a person has been away from a task how long a person has been away from a computer component historical data associated with average times away calendar information and information associated with the likelihood that a person will return to a task and or device. The sub fields can also include a reliability data field that holds reliability information including but not limited to a current likelihood of degradation an expected likelihood of degradation a current likelihood of disconnection an expected likelihood of disconnection a current likelihood of security compromise an expected likelihood of security compromise a mean time between failure of a communication channel an average failure duration on a communication channel an average percent degradation of a communication channel an atmospheric condition data a scheduled communication channel maintenance data a scheduled communication channel downtime data an expected duration of a communication a reliability history of a communication channel a lost connection cost a reconnecting cost an attentional status of a communicating party an activity of a communicating party a utility of a partially completed communication a frustration factor cost of a lost connection a monetary cost for a lost connection an opportunity cost for a lost connection a time delay cost for reconnection and an embarrassment cost.

The sub fields can also include a security data field that holds security related information including but not limited to the current level of security applied to a communication the desired level of security applied to a communication the current level of security applied to a data packet transmission the desired level of security applied to a data packet transmission and the minimum acceptable level of security for a communication and or data packet transmission. Such security levels can be computed for example from data carried in other sub fields e.g. preference context . By way of illustration a contactee may desire a specific level of security for communications occurring over specific devices. Such preferences can be stored in the schema and placed in the preference field . Similarly observed context data can be stored in the schema and placed in the context field . Thus the security field can be populated in one example of the present invention by applying the context field contents to the preferences field contents.

Given the rich and expansive set of data that a communication manager can consider when determining a communication time channel group and security it has conventionally been difficult if possible at all to provide a coherent portable accessible set of data to simplify such determinations and to transmit data concerning such a data set. Therefore the present invention facilitates generating a schema that can be accessed by a utility optimizing communication manager via data communication packets described above.

Referring now to an application programming interface API is illustrated providing access to a system that includes a schema generator and a schema . The API can be employed for example by programmers and or processes to gain access to processing performed by the system . For example a programmer can write a program to access a schema generator e.g. to invoke its operation to monitor its operation to access its functionality where writing such a program is facilitated by the presence of the API . Thus rather than the programmer having to understand the internals of the schema generator the programmer s task is simplified by merely having to learn the interface to the schema generator . This facilitates encapsulating the functionality of the schema generator while exposing that functionality. Similarly the API can be employed to provide data values to the system and or retrieve data values from the system . For example a process that retrieves channel information can provide channel data to the schema generator and or the schema via the API by for example using a schema write call provided in the API . Thus in one example of the present invention a set of application program interfaces can be stored on a computer readable medium. The interfaces can be executed by a computer component to gain access to a schema generating and managing program. Such interfaces can include but are not limited to a first interface that receives a context data associated with a communicating party a second interface that receives a preference data associated with a communicating party and a third interface that receives a schema data generated from the context data and the preference data.

By way of illustration of the operation of the router a schema input from the schema can include information about a communication including the identities of the communicating parties the subject matter of the communication the channel s employed in the communication and a set of communication policies associated with the parties communication and channel s . For example the schema input can be retrieved from one or more instances of elements that are declared like 

The router receives the schema input analyzes the available data and or inferences concerning missing pieces of data and attempts to adhere to the communication policies. Therefore the router can attempt to make the communication to preferred devices people and or computer components in the order specified in the communication policy. However the schema input may include data that indicates that certain devices people and or computer components are not available are unreliable are too costly too employ and so on. Therefore the router can progress to different devices people and or computer components to optimize the utility of the communication while adhering to the communication policies. While six destinations are provided for the router in the system it is to be appreciated that a greater and or lesser number of destinations can be employed in accordance with the present invention.

In another example of a system that can access the schema the communication manager includes a source determiner that identifies the source of a communication. The source determiner can make such an identification based for example on information received via the schema input. By way of illustration a schema input associated with a communication can identify the time of a communication the channel over which it is traveling and voice pattern data but may not include an identification of the source of the communication e.g. device identity communicating party identity . Since the router can determine to which destination s if any to route a communication based on the identity of the sender e.g. highly trusted associated known purveyor of spam the source determiner can process the available information to either deterministically identify the source and or to provide a probability concerning the identity of the sender which facilitates optimizing utility of a communication by facilitating adherence to preferences and communication policies.

In another example of a communication manager that can access the schema the communication manager includes a relationship determiner that receives a schema input from the schema and determines relationships between for example communicating parties communicating devices and communication messages. By way of illustration the schema input can include information that facilitates identifying a relationship between communicating parties. Such a relationship can be employed to determine to which destination s if any the router will route a message. For example identifying a close family relationship may permit the router to route a communication to a real time communication device e.g. cell phone with a high priority e.g. breakthrough priority while identifying a work relationship where the contactor is two or more levels below the contactee in an organizational chart can constrain the router to routing the communication to a non real time communication device e.g. voice mail . By way of further illustration the schema input can provide the relationship determiner with information that facilitates identifying a relationship between communicating devices. For example the relationship determiner can examine source and destination addresses associated with devices involved in a first communication and determine via context hardware and or software data for example that the communicating devices are on a network that will support a first e.g. 10 Mb sec data transfer rate and thus the communication can occur at that rate. But a second set of source and destination addresses may only be able to communicate at a slower second rate e.g. 56 Kbps . Thus information stored in the schema facilitates optimizing utility in managed communications by providing information that can be employed to identify relationships between communicating parties devices and or processes.

By way of illustration at a determination can be made whether the routing options e.g. the context of the communicating parties the preferences of the communicating parties and the communication policies of the contactee indicate that the communication should be routed to voice mail. If the determination at is YES then the communication can be routed at to a voice mail recording computer component for example. A contactee may have established a communication policy that is stored in the schema that is a logical OR of conditions that indicate that a communication should be routed to voice mail. For example a rule like If the contactor is Keith Susann Danny or Christopher OR if I am actively engaged in a high priority task OR if I am at work but away from my desk OR if the background ambient noise indicates that I would not be able to hear a telephone call then route the communication to voice mail . Such a rule can be encoded in a communication policy that is stored in a schema generated managed and or maintained by the present invention.

Other routing decisions can include but are not limited to at determining whether an automatic reminder should be made and if so at routing the communication to a reminder generator at determining whether the communication should be copied to one or more additional contactees and if so at carbon copying and or blind carbon copying the communication to such additional contactees at determining whether a communication should be forwarded to an additional party s and if so at forwarding the message to such party s at determining whether a communication should be archived e.g. an order confirmation that needs to be recorded and if so at routing the message to an archiver e.g. tape backup unit and at determining whether the message should be routed to a proxy. For example a breakthrough priority communication may arrive e.g. communication from judge concerning temporary restraining order but the contactee e.g. lead litigator may be unavailable e.g. in a plane during takeoff landing . Thus the method can determine that this time critical communication should be routed to the contactee s proxy e.g. second chair litigator who can make a decision for the primary contactee and therefore at such communication can be routed to the proxy.

At a determination is made concerning whether the method is going to route another communication. If the determination at is YES then processing can return to otherwise processing can conclude.

Turning now to one example feedback loop in which a schema that is created managed and or maintained by the present invention can participate is illustrated. The feedback loop includes the schema a time away analyzer and a channel manager that selects a communication channel s through which a contactor and a contactee will communicate. Data e.g. preference context channel groups policies reliability is stored in the schema and made accessible to the channel manager and time away analyzer via for example the data packets and or signals described herein. The channel manager makes communication channel decisions based on the schema and in turn provides updates to the schema that reflect the communication channel decisions. Similarly the time away analyzer makes communication management related decisions and provides feedback to the schema . Thus the schema both affects and is affected by the channel manger and the time away analyzer . Other feedback loops can include processing associated with for example group processing reliability analyzing override analyzing and the like.

Data concerning the decision made at can be fed back to the schema to update the schema. For example if the schema stores state e.g. availability of a device availability of a person and the decision at affects such state e.g. device in use person engaged in communication then the schema can benefit from being updated to reflect such change in state. Therefore at a determination is made concerning whether to update the schema. If the decision at is YES then at the schema is updated otherwise processing can return to . Updating the schema at can involve sending a data packet and or signal from the method to the schema s that were accessed at where the data packet and or signal can carry information concerning for example a changed state. Thus it is to be appreciated that the schema that is created accessed and or managed by the present invention can be a dynamic entity that provides data for communication management decisions and is in turn affected by such decisions.

In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the present invention and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment that can create manage and or access the schema of the present invention. While the computing environment that can produce and or manage the schema is described in the general context of computer executable components instructions and or operations that may run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the computing environment can also be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the computing environment can include other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which may be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices. The computing environment can also include a distributed computing environment where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary environment that can produce and or manage various aspects of the invention includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit may be any of various processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in ROM .

The computer further includes a hard disk drive a magnetic disk drive e.g. to read from or write to a removable disk and an optical disk drive e.g. for reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other optical media . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer components computer executable instructions etc. for the computer . Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a CD it should be appreciated that other types of media that are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks cartridges ASICs and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods associated with the present invention.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . It is to be appreciated that the computing environment can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a satellite dish a scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a serial port interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port a game port a universal serial bus USB an IR infrared interface etc. A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s may be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN environment the computer is connected to the local network through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN environment the computer typically includes a modem or is connected to a communications server on the LAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

The system includes a reliability analyzer . Thus the XML schema can contain elements and attributes for storing and making accessible reliability data. For example an XML element like 

can be defined in the schema to facilitate storing information associated with the mean time between failure for a channel the average duration of failure for a channel and a textual description of recent failures. Such an element can be evaluated by a communication manager and or reliability analyzer to facilitate selecting a utility optimizing communication channel.

The system also includes an override analyzer that can determine whether a communication channel selection should be override. The schema may therefore include an element like 

that facilitates storing information valuable to an override decision like the expected activity level for a channel scheduled maintenance times and likely security levels at various times. Therefore while the communication manager can initially select a channel the data stored in the override element in the schema can provide the override analyzer with information that causes the channel selection to be overridden e.g. lengthy communication likely to overlap with scheduled channel maintenance .

The system also includes other computer components like a group management component a time away analyzer a routing analyzer and a security analyzer each of which can have related elements defined in the XML schema . Thus the XML schema which in one example of the present invention can be stored in a binary large object BLOB facilitates storing and managing portable data associated with communication management.

Referring now to a system is illustrated that can be employed in conjunction with various aspects of the present invention as previously described. A channel manager identifies communication channels that facilitate optimizing the utility of a communication between a contactor and a contactee . While one contactor and one contactee are illustrated it is to be appreciated that the system facilitates identifying optimal communication channels between two or more communicating parties e.g. communication groups . It is to be further appreciated that the parties to the communication may include human parties apparatus and or electronic processes. Thus as employed herein the terms contactee and contactor include groups of contactors and groups of contactees.

The communication may be carried over a variety of channels including but not limited to telephone channels computer channels fax channels paging channels and personal channels. The telephone channels include but are not limited to POTS telephony cellular telephony satellite telephony and Internet telephony. The computer channels can include but are not limited to email collaborative editing instant messaging network meetings calendaring and devices employed in home processing and or networking. The personal channels include but are not limited to videoconferencing messengering and face to face meeting. Data concerning a current channel e.g. a phone that is busy can be analyzed as can data concerning the likelihood that the channel may become available e.g. phone will no longer be busy .

Identifying the optimal communication channel can include considering the benefits of establishing the communication at a first point in time with the communication channels available at that point in time and considering the costs of delaying establishing the communication to a second point in time when other communication channels may be available.

The channel manager has access to a channel data store a contactor data store and a contactee data store . The contactor data store the channel data store and the contactee data store can store data in data structures including but not limited to one or more lists arrays tables databases stacks heaps linked lists and data cubes and can reside on one physical device and or can be distributed between two or more physical devices e.g. disk drives tape drives memory units . Furthermore the contactor data store the channel data store and the contactee data store can reside in one logical device and or data structure.

The channel manager can be a computer component as that term is defined herein and thus the channel manager can be distributed between two or more cooperating processes and or reside in one physical or logical device e.g. computer process .

In a general formulation of the problem addressed by the channel manager the present invention considers a communications value function that returns a value for each communication channel or subset of channels under consideration or an ordering over communication channels in terms of acceptability of the channel or subset of channels.

where the context of contactee and contactor include group membership group context the devices that are available the time of day tasks and situation at hand for the contactor and contactee and the like. It is to be appreciated that the context of the contactee and contactor may be stored in one or more formats including but not limited to an XML schema. In one example of the present invention the channel manager initially orders the channels by assigned value and attempts to create a connection or to advise the contactor and or contactee concerning the best possible connection.

In general there may be uncertainty concerning preferences and one or more parameters employed to model a context. In this situation a probability distribution over the different states of variables can be inferred and expected values for channels can be computed. For example if there is uncertainty concerning aspects of the context of the contactee the probability distribution here represented abstractly given evidence E observed about the context and sum over the uncertainties can be represented 

While this expected value can be employed to initially identify the channel that is predicted to optimize the utility of the communication in one example of the present invention the contactee will be presented with options concerning the communication. The contactee reaction to the options will then determine the channel that is selected for the communication . The reactions to the options can be employed in machine learning that facilitates adapting the channel manager .

Considering now more specific examples of the use of expected utility a particular basic formulation of decision making under uncertainty in the context of the preferences of the contactee is captured by Equation 1.

C is the identity of the contactor typically linked to a class of person e.g. critical associate previously replied to family unknown .

Thus in an example aspect of the present invention the conditional probability p context E that the contactee has a certain context given the evidence E is employed in conjunction with the utility function u to determine the ideal communication actions that can be taken to maximize the utility of the communication between the contactor and the contactee .

The basic formulation for identifying optimal communication channels can be extended by introducing uncertainty about the context of the contactor which adds the summing noted in equation 2 to the uncertainty calculations of equation 1. The particular communication action and or channel selected for the initial contact by the contactor is represented as A.

The contactor and contactee contexts represent rich sets of deterministic or uncertain variables. Data associated with automated assessments and or directly marked indications of urgency or importance in the communications can also be evaluated in identifying optimal communication channels. The contextual variables can be treated as explicit deterministic or probabilistic factors in the optimization. For example mcan represent the channels available to the contactor and thus equation 3 considers combinations of channels available to the contactor .

The present invention can also compare the best communication option available now with the best communication option that will be available later and update the value of the communication for the losses based in delays in communication and potential gains or losses based on changes in disruptiveness if the communication should come at the later time t when the contactee is in a different state e.g. more available or less available . Such comparison can be captured by equation four 

Thus decision theoretic formulae like those described in equations 1 through 4 are employed to produce one or more expected utilities for one or more sets of contactors and or contactees that are established into one or more groups that are subsequently managed. In one example aspect of the present invention a communication is automatically initiated scheduled and or calendared based on such information. But in another aspect of the present invention information concerning those expected utilities is presented to one or more parties. By way of illustration a contactor is presented with a list of communications with high utilities determined in accordance with the preferences of the contactee. The contactor then selects from the list.

While one communication between one contactor and one contactee is illustrated it is to be appreciated that a greater number of communications between a similar or greater number of contactors and or contactees can be identified by the present invention. By way of illustration communications to facilitate group meetings can be identified by the system as can multiple communications between two communicating parties e.g. duplicate messages sent simultaneously by email and pager .

The communication that is identified by the channel manager may depend at least in part on one or more sets of data concerning communication channels contactors and or contactees for example. One possible data set the communication channel data set concerns the available communication channels. The available communication channels can include but are not limited to email of various priorities telephone POTS cellular satellite Internet paging runners couriers video conferencing face to face meeting instantaneous collaborative editing delayed posting collaborative editing picture in picture television home device activation e.g. turning on lights in the study ringing the telephone with a distinctive pattern and so on. A communication channel may not be a static entity and thus information concerning the state capacity availability cost etc. of the communication channels can change. Thus the communication channel data set can contain current state information and or data to facilitate making predictions concerning future state capacity availability cost etc. associated with one or more communication channels.

The channel manager can also have available the contactee data that includes information related to hardware software contactee task being performed contactee attention status contactee context data and contactee preference data for example. By way of illustration the hardware data can include information related to what hardware is available to the contactee what hardware is being employed by the contactee e.g. desktop laptop PDA the capabilities of that hardware e.g. enough memory and communication bandwidth for videoconferencing the cost of employing that hardware and the state s in which that hardware is currently functioning e.g. online offline . The hardware data can also include information concerning usage patterns that facilitate determining the likelihood that an unavailable piece of hardware will become available. The software data can include information related to what software is available to the contactee what software is currently being employed by the contactee e.g. word processor in use the capabilities of that software e.g. allows collaborative editing and the state s in which that software is currently functioning e.g. running and active running but inactive . The software data can also include information concerning usage patterns that facilitate determining the likelihood that an unavailable piece of software will become available.

The contactee data can also contain preference data concerning the preferences of the contactee . The preference data can include data concerning how the contactee prefers to be contacted with those preferences varying over time with respect to for example various contactors various times various channels and various topics of communication. The contactee preference data can include data concerning but not limited to preferences concerning the time of day for communicating e.g. early morning business hours evening late night sleeping hours the time of the week for communicating e.g. Monday through Friday Weekend Holiday Vacation identity of contactors e.g. employer employees critical colleague colleague peers nuclear family extended family close friends friends acquaintances others hardware currently available or available within a time horizon of a communication attempt e.g. desktop laptop home computer preferred software e.g. email word processing calendaring and preferred interruptability e.g. do not interrupt while focused on work only interrupt while not focused for example. While six preferences are identified in the preceding sentence it is to be appreciated that a greater or lesser number of preferences can be employed in accordance with the present invention.

The contactee data can also include a context data . The context data is generally related to observations about the contactee . For example observations concerning the type of activity in which the contactee is involved e.g. on task not on task location of the contactee e.g. office home car shower calendar e.g. appointment status appointment availability history of communications with other party e.g. have replied to email in the past have spoken to on the telephone recently the utility of the interaction the duration of the interaction background ambient noise at current location number of hours at work that day and attentional status e.g. high focus focus light focus conversation with another person light activity can be stored in the context data .

On some occasions the context data may be incomplete e.g. video analysis data unavailable because video camera broken . Thus the channel manager reasons concerning the optimal communication while relying on such incomplete data. Thus the contactee data can also include information to facilitate producing one or more probabilities associated with a missing data element. By way of illustration the contactee data can contain information operable to predict the likelihood that the contactee is in a high attentional state even though gaze tracking information is unavailable.

The contactee data can further include information concerning the long term and or acute dynamically changing communication needs of the contactee . By way of illustration the contactee may need to have no interruptions for the next hour e.g. hold everything unless high critical on this task or an hour from now . By way of further illustration to prevent a contactor from ducking the contactee by leaving an email or a voice mail when the contactee desires to speak with the contactor the contactee can require that contacts from the contactor be made in a certain way within X units of time of notification that the contactor desires communication.

the contactee data is seen to contribute to the utility function u through the contextcomponent which can include the contactee context data discussed above.

In addition to the contactee data employed in determining the optimal communication data concerning the contactor may also be employed. The contactor data can include hardware software context preference and communication needs data substantially similar to that available for the contactee but different in that it is prepared from the point of view of the contactor .

The present invention is not limited to communications between two parties or to a single communication channel between two parties. It is to be appreciated that multiple channels and or multiple communicating parties can be treated as increased sets of alternatives that complicate utility optimizing maximizing computations without changing the fundamental process of identifying and establishing one or more communication channels based on the preferences contexts and capabilities of the communicating parties.

The channel manager can include several computer components responsible for implementing portions of the functionality of the channel manager . For example the channel manager can include a preference resolver . The preference resolver examines the contactee preference data and the contactor preference data to find correlations between the two sets of data. In one example of the present invention information concerning the correlations is stored in a resolved preference data. For group communications the preference resolver examines multiple sets of preference data to find correlations between the preferences. By way of illustration for a communication between two parties the preference resolver can determine that both parties would prefer to communicate by high priority email for communications associated with a first task. Similarly the preference resolver can determine that the contactee would prefer to communicate by collaborative editing and phone for communications concerning a particular document while the contactor would prefer to communicate only by telephone. Thus the preference resolver produces data e.g. resolved preference data or initiates processing that assigns values to the correlations between the contactee preferences and the contactor preferences . In one example aspect of the present invention the preferences of the contactee are given more weight and thus if the contactor attempted a phone conversation concerning the document for which the contactee preferred both phone and collaborative editing then the preference resolver produces data or initiates processing that makes it more likely that the contactor communicates by both phone and collaborative editing. In another example aspect of the present invention the preferences of the contactor are given priority over the preferences of the contactee. By way of illustration when a human contactor is attempting to communicate with an electronic contactee the preferences of the contactor are considered more important and thus the preference resolver produces values or initiates processing that makes it more likely that the preferences of the contactor are observed. In another example aspect of the present invention the preference resolver produces a list of potential communication channels ranked on their responsiveness to the preferences.

The channel manager can also include a context analyzer . The context analyzer examines the contactee context data and the contactor context data to find correlations between the two sets of data. In one example of the present invention information concerning the correlations is stored in an analyzed context data. For group communications the context analyzer may examine multiple sets of context data to extract information concerning the contexts. By way of illustration for a communication between two parties the context analyzer may determine that the contactee context is such that real time communications are not immediately available but there is an X likelihood that such communications will be available at a point of time Tin the future and an X likelihood that such communications will be available at a point of time Tin the future. Further the context analyzer may determine that although the contactor has requested real time telephony that the context of the contactor is such that email communication may optimize utility. For example the context of the contactor may include information concerning the ambient noise at the location of the contactor . The context analyzer may determine that the noise level is not conducive to optimizing utility by real time telephony and thus may produce values and or initiate processing that will make it more likely that the contactor will communicate with the contactee via email. Similar to processing performed by the preference resolver the context analyzer may in different examples of the system weight the context of the contactee more than the context of the contactor or vice versa.

the context analyzer performs processing associated with the utility function u and its analysis of the contextand the context.

The channel manager can also include a channel analyzer . The channel analyzer analyzes the communication channel data set . The channel analyzer produces data concerning the current availability of a communication channel and or the likelihood of the channel becoming available. In one example of the present invention such data is stored in a communication channel data. The channel analyzer also examines one or more channels that the contactor specified for the communication and or one or more channels that the contactee listed as preferences in the contactee preference data for example. The channel analyzer also examines currently available channels as determined by location information associated with the contactee and channels that may become available based on the activity of the contactee . For example if the contactee is currently driving home as determined by GPS and schedule for example then the channel analyzer examines current cellular channels and additionally examines the channels available at the home of the contactee . Thus the channel analyzer facilitates producing data and or initiating processing that makes it more likely that a desired channel is employed when determining the optimal communication channel s for the communication between the contactor and the contactee . Thus examining equation 1 

the channel analyzer performs processing associated with the utility function u and its analysis of the contactor channels Aand the contactee channels A.

The channel manager can also include a communication establisher . Once the ideal communication actions A have been identified the communication establisher undertakes processing to connect the contactor and the contactee through the identified optimal communication channel. Such connection can be based at least in part on the resolved preference data the analyzed context data and the communication channel data. For example if the optimal communication is identified as being email then the communication establisher can initiate an email composing process for the contactor e.g. email screen on computer voice to email converter on cell phone email composer on two way digital pager and forward the composed email to the most appropriate email application for the contactee based on the identified optimal communication . For example the communication establisher can forward the email to the pager of the contactee based on GPS data associated with the location of the contactee . In an alternative example of the present invention the system does not include a communication establisher relying instead on contactor and or contactee actions for example to establish the communication. It is to be appreciated that the preference resolver the context analyzer the channel analyzer and the communication establisher are computer components as that term is defined herein.

It is noted that specific decision models can be formulated for computing ideal communications handling. Consider for example the model displayed in represented as an influence diagram. Influence diagrams are a well known representation of decision problems in the decision science community. The models capture uncertain relationships among key variables including observational variables decisions and value functions. The communications decision making influence diagram displayed in captures the preferences of a recipient of communications. This model is formulated from the perspective of a recipient of communications and can drive an automated system via the provision of dynamically computed policies about the handling of the incoming communications. Specifically this model can be used to identify the timing and modality actions for incoming calls that minimize cost or alternatively maximize expected value for the recipient of communications.

In the model different actions about the best timing now versus reschedule for time t and channel or modality of an incoming communication is represented by a square key variables including observational and inferred variables are represented by the oval nodes in the graph and a diamond represents the value or cost associated with decisions. Directed arcs represent probabilistic or deterministic dependence among variables. In the model key variables include the cost of interruption now and at future times t the cost of deferring the communication for time t the cost associated with accessing different devices capturing device availability and the cost of choosing a suboptimal channel such as committing to use a cell phone to access a communication that might rely to some extent on the sharing of graphical content. As indicated by the dependencies data representing or allowing inference about the recipient s context at the time of the communication indicates influences the cost of interruption. The cost of device availability is influenced by the time of the communication and the context at that time. The cost of deferral is influenced by the time of the communication and the asserted or inferred goals and type of content of the communication. The cost associated with different communication channels or modalities is influenced by the initial channel selected by the contactor the nature of the goals and content and a specification when available of the contactor s preferences about channels or modalities for the communication. The time of the communication also influences the context of the user the cost of deferral and the cost of use of different channels. Inference from relevant observational data and among key variables represented in this decision model can provide deterministic or probabilistic values for states of key variables that influence the utility of different actions. When such a model is solved in real time given a set of observations including relevant data transmitted in a communications schema multiple times and modalities are considered and the time and modality that optimizes the utility or equivalently minimizes the expected cost of the communication is selected and this policy is executed. In cases where uncertainty remains among variables an action that maximizes expected utility or that minimizes expected cost is selected.

What has been described above includes examples of the present invention. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the present invention but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the present invention are possible. Accordingly the present invention is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted as a transitional word in a claim.

