---

title: Media player configured to receive playback filters from alternative storage mediums
abstract: A media player configured with a first removable memory reader, such as a DVD drive, and a second removable memory reader, such as a flash memory reader, adapted to communicate with a removable memory containing filter data. The media player is configured to allow filtered playback of a multimedia presentation, such as a movie. Filtered playback causes certain portions of the multimedia presentation to be skipped, muted, blurred, cropped, or otherwise modified to eliminate or reduce potentially objectionable scenes, language, or other content. The second memory reader provides a convenient medium for the loading of filter information, whether data files, executable program code, or the like, to local memory of the media player to employ during filtered playback. Alternatively, the filters may be accessed from the removable storage media during playback rather than loading to local memory.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08117282&OS=08117282&RS=08117282
owner: ClearPlay, Inc.
number: 08117282
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060105
---
The present application claims priority to and is a non provisional application of provisional application No. 60 641 678 titled Video Player Configured to Receive Playback Filters from Alternative Storage Mediums filed Jan. 5 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present application also claims priority to and is a continuation in part of U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 11 256 419 titled Method and User Interface for Downloading Audio and Video Content Filters to a Media Player filed on Oct. 20 2005 which claims priority to provisional application No. 60 620 902 titled Method and User Interface for Downloading Audio and Video Content Filters to a Media Player filed on Oct. 20 2004 the 902 application which are each hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention generally relates to the field of modifying playback of a multimedia presentation such as a video from a storage medium and more particularly to a media player such as a DVD player configured to upload playback filters to a local memory or otherwise use playback filters from either a removable storage medium in communication with a video memory interface such as a DVD drive or a removable storage medium in communication with a removable memory interface such as a flash memory interface USB memory interface memory stick interface or the like and apply the filters to modify e.g. skip or mute certain portions of a video during playback.

A multimedia presentation such as audio provided on CD and a movie provided on DVD may contain certain language images scenes or other content not suitable or considered objectionable by certain audiences. To address this concern certain technologies have been developed to allow filtering such as skipping or muting various types of content. This technology allows for example the viewing of a movie originally containing more adult oriented content by younger less mature viewers. Generally the filtering function is provided by a media content filter resident within the DVD player that specifically applies to a particular multimedia presentation. The filter which is typically stored within a nonvolatile logic memory of the media player such as flash memory indicates which portions of the multimedia presentation are to be skipped or which audio portions are to be muted by the DVD player during playback. Typically whether the filter is employed for a particular presentation of the multimedia may be determined by the user by way of a menu selection system provided by the media player. Further different forms of objectionable content such as profane language sexually explicit content and so on may also be selectively filtered by way of the menu system. In some systems the filtering system may be protected by way of a user defined password so that those not privy to the password are unable to defeat the filtering mechanism.

Each filter specific to a particular presentation is typically produced at some point after a multimedia presentation has been released. Thus for example while some filters for preexisting movies may be pre installed in the DVD player the player normally also includes a method of accepting and storing new filters as they are produced. Typically filters are installed by way of a CD DVD or other disc readable by the same memory reader of the DVD player that also reads the DVD or other storage medium having the multimedia presentation. Therefore a user inserts the disc containing the filters of interest into the tray or slot normally employed for playback. The DVD player recognizing the disc as one containing filters installs the filters from the disc possibly at the guidance of the user by way of the player menu system.

One aspect of the invention involves a method for loading filter information to a media player. The method involves analyzing a status of a first memory reader adapted to communicate with a removable storage medium including data associated with a multimedia presentation. The method further involves establishing communication with a second storage medium and determining whether the second storage medium includes filtering information associated with a multimedia presentation. Then filtered play of the presentation may occur.

Another aspect of the invention involves a media player including a processing configuration in communication with a first memory reader. The first memory reader configured to receive and read information from a first storage medium including data associated with a multimedia presentation such as a DVD with encoded audio and video data e.g. a movie . The media player further comprises a second memory reader which also may be in communication with the processing configuration the second memory reader configured to read filter information from a second storage medium.

Aspects of the present invention involve methods systems apparatus and computer program products for automatically identifying and filtering portions of multimedia content. In one implementation a media player is configured with at least first and second memory readers where one or both of the memory readers are configured to receive filter information such as filter data files executable code or combinations thereof etc. from removable memory. Such a configuration provides added flexibility in loading filter information to the media player or otherwise accessing filtering information and does not require the same memory reader be employed for both play of a multimedia presentation as well as filter access.

In one implementation the filter information defines selectable filtering attributes for particular multimedia titles. The filter information may be uploaded from the removable memory to an internal memory of the media player or accessed directly by the media player from the removable memory. During display of the multimedia presentation such as during play of a DVD the player continually checks the filter information to determine if a particular portion of a movie should be filtered.

A broad aspect of the invention involves filtering one or more portions of a multimedia presentation. Filtering may involve muting objectionable language in a multimedia presentation skipping past objectionable portions of a multimedia presentation modifying the presentation of an image or images which may be a stream of images as in a movie such as through cropping fading blurring or zooming some portion of the image or otherwise modifying presentation of the multimedia presentation to eliminate reduce or modify the objectionable or unwanted language images or other content. Filtering may further extend to other content that may be provided in a multimedia presentation including close captioning text data links program guide information etc. One such filtering technology involves a media player such as a personal computer or DVD player configured to allow filtered playback of a movie or other multimedia presentation as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 104 924 titled Apparatus System and Method for Filtering Objectionable Portions of Multimedia Presentation filed on Apr. 12 2005 the 924 application which is hereby incorporated by reference herein. Other filter technologies configured to allow filtered playback of a movie or other multimedia presentation are described in U.S. application Ser. No. 09 694 873 titled Multimedia Content Navigation and Playback filed on Oct. 23 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 898 799 which issued May 24 2005 and U.S. application Ser. No. 09 695 102 titled Delivery of Navigation Data for Playback of Audio and Video Content filed on Oct. 23 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 889 383 which issued May 3 2005 which are each incorporated by reference herein. In accordance with further aspects of the present invention in one particular implementation the media player is configured with the infrastructure to obtain filter information from more than one removable memory media.

By way of example filtering technology is described herein with reference to the filtering technology set forth in the 924 application. However various aspects of the present invention are not limited to application in a platform conforming to the 924 application. Rather aspects of the present invention are applicable to any platform media player or otherwise that allows or facilitates filtering or otherwise modifying play of a movie or other form of multimedia presentation.

With respect particularly to DVD based audiovisual presentations such as audio and video typically some types of DVD can hold a full length film with up to 133 minutes of high quality audio and video compressed or encoded such as through a Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG coding formats. One advantage of the particular filtering platform described in the 924 application is that it does not require any modification or alteration of the formatting of the presentation in order for filtering to occur. Stated another way to perform filtering the presentation need not be preformatted and stored on the DVD with any particular separate information related to the language or type of images being delivered at any point in the presentation. Rather filtering involves monitoring existing time codes of multimedia data read from the DVD or closely tracking the timing of the presentation. As described in greater detail below a filter file or event includes a time code corresponding to a portion of the multimedia data that is intended to be skipped or muted. A match between a time code of a portion of the multimedia presentation read from a DVD with a time code in the filter file causes the execution of a filtering action such as a mute or a skip. It is also possible to monitor other indicia of the multimedia data read from the DVD such as indicia of the physical location on a memory media from which the data was read.

Until the mute time seek skip or other filtering action is executed the DVD player reads the multimedia information from the DVD during conventional sequential play of the multimedia presentation. Thus the operations associated with a play command on the DVD are executed. The play command causes the read write head to sequentially read portions of the video from the DVD. As used herein the term sequential is meant to refer to the order of data that corresponds to the order of a multimedia presentation. The multimedia data however may be physically located on a memory media in a non sequential manner. Moreover MPEG coding may involve non linear access to certain types of data for proper decoding and display. Typically the multimedia information read from the DVD is stored in a buffer. From the buffer the MPEG coded multimedia information is decoded prior to display on a monitor television or the like. The buffer allows the system to maintain a fairly constant decoding rate so that the presentation of the movie is not negatively affected from processing or retrieval or other latencies. A buffer may not be necessary depending on the retrieval speed decoding speed and other factors.

In one aspect the time code for the multimedia information read from a memory media and stored in a memory buffer is compared to filter files in a filter table. A filter table is a collection of one or more filter files also referred to as a filter or event for a particular multimedia presentation. A filter file is an identification of a portion of a multimedia presentation and a corresponding filtering action. Each filter file may be identified by or otherwise associated with one or more filter types such as Strong Action Violence or Brutal Gory violence filter types. The portion of the multimedia presentation may be identified by a start or interrupt and end time or resume code by start and end physical locations on a memory media by a time or location and an offset value time distance physical location or a combination thereof etc. . Within a filter table for a particular presentation a user may activate any combination of filter files or no filter files. Further as set forth in the U.S. provisional patent application titled Apparatus System and Method for Creation Delivery and Utilization of Recommended Filter Settings filed on the same day as this application under No. 60 756 905 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein some combinations of filter types may be recommended preselected or preset. For example for the film Gladiator the Strong Action Violence filter may be deactivated and the Brutal Gory Violence filter activated. Thus some or all portions of the movie associated with a Strong Action Violence filter type will be shown while some or all portions of the movie associated with a Brutal Gory violence filter type will be skipped or otherwise filtered.

In some instances a particular filter type may only be partially supported. For example there may be ten instances in a movie associated with strong action violence. However filtering e.g. skipping one of the instances may alter the movie in such a manner that some important aspect would no longer make sense. In such a situation the one instance is shown despite actuation of the strong action violence filter. Typically the user is provided with a warning of some sort.

Table 1 below provides two examples of filter files for the movie Gladiator . The filter types set forth in Table 1 are similar but not the same as other examples of filter types set forth herein. As set forth in further detail below a filter table for a particular multimedia presentation may be provided as a data file or other data arrangement a set of instructions or a combination thereof on a removable memory media in the same memory media as the multimedia presentation or otherwise loaded into the memory of a multimedia player configured to operate in accordance with aspects of the invention.

Referring to Table 1 the first filter file has a start time of 00 04 15 19 hour minute second frame and an end time of 00 04 48 26. The first filter file further has a duration of 997 frames and is a skip type filtering action as opposed to mute or other filtering action . Finally the first filter file is associated with two filter types. The first filter type is identified as V D D which is a filter code for a violent V scene in which a dead D or decomposed D body is shown. The second filter type is identified as V D G which is a filter code for a violent V scene associated with disturbing D and or gruesome G imagery and or dialogue. Implementations of the present invention may include numerous other filter types. During filtered playback of the film Gladiator if the V D D V D G or both filter files are activated the 997 frames falling between 00 04 15 19 and 00 04 48 26 are skipped not shown . Additionally if the V D G filter file is activated the 210 frames falling between 00 04 51 26 and 00 04 58 26 are skipped.

Table 2 below provides one example of various possible filter types conforming to one particular embodiment of the present invention. Other filter types quantities of filter types etc. may be implemented in various embodiments conforming to aspects of the present invention.

Generally speaking one or more filter tables pertaining to one or more movie titles or other multimedia may be uploaded to player memory from either a removable memory loaded into the tray or a removable memory loaded into the RSM reader or otherwise in communication with the RSM reader. In one example a filter table for a particular movie title is stored from the removable memory in local memory of the player such as flash memory random access memory of various types etc. for ready access during presentation of the multimedia. It is also possible to access a filter table or other form of filter information directly from the removable memory media during presentation. In one example since the tray is used to load a DVD containing the movie a separate removable memory medium including one or more filter tables loaded into the tray must be removed before play of the movie unless the filter table is included with the DVD containing the movie. In contrast removable memory connected with the RSM reader may be accessed at any time regardless of the presence or absence of a DVD in the tray and regardless of whether a movie is being played.

Table 3 illustrates various actions taken by a particular DVD player implementation of a media player to upload a filter table or other filter from alternative storage sources or to take other actions based upon the status of the DVD drive the RSM reader the presence or absence of filter data and actions of the user. Each line A J in Table 3 represents various possible scenarios of combinations of the DVD drive status the RSM reader status the internal DVD player flash memory status and a user action. Depending on the combination various actions may be taken by the player. The examples set forth with respect to Table 3 refer to a DVD drive and a RSM reader in the form of a universal serial bus port however these examples merely refer to one particular implementation and may or may not be employed in other configurations. Moreover these or other functions may be employed in other media players. In one particular example filter tables are collectively stored in a computer file with a .CPF or other unique extension or file type identifier. The media player is configured to scan the removable memory for the presence of any data file with an extension associated with filter information.

Depending on any particular implementation it may be necessary to delete existing files in local memory or otherwise ensure there is sufficient local memory space for loading at least one filter table in order for filtered play. The 902 application referenced above describes implementations for determining and obtaining sufficient local memory space some or all of which directly or with slight modification may be employed in various media player implementations.

Now with reference to Table 3 row A illustrates the action taken by the media player when the DVD drive is empty and the user inserts a DVD into the DVD drive. The DVD player checks the title of the movie stored on the DVD and determines that a matching filter table exists in player memory. The status of the USB drive in this scenario is irrelevant. Upon detection of a matching movie filter the DVD player causes display of the menu screen shown in . Through a remote control or the interface components supported on the front face of the player the user may select Normal Play Filtered Play and Filter Details menu buttons. Selecting Normal Play will cause the movie to be played without any filtering. Selecting Filtered Play will facilitate playback of the movie with filtering applied. The 924 application describes various operations and details involved with facilitating filtered play. Note tables are set forth adjacent the various menus described herein. The tables illustrate actions taken depending on receipt of various control commands.

Through the Filter Details button the user may view all filters available in flash memory or all filters in a master index of all filters available for uploading but not necessarily already present in flash memory of the DVD player. Generally the master index provides a list of films for which media content filters filter tables are currently available. A current master index may be loaded to player memory whenever the player loads new filtering information or otherwise establishes communication with a removable memory with filter information. In an embodiment conforming to aspects of media player set forth in the 902 application it also possible to update the master index pursuant to network connectivity. In addition a list of movies for which a filter will never be generated is also supplied. Many movies and similar presentations do not realistically contain any objectively objectionable content. For example many G rated General Audience children s movies do not contain any sexual violent or profane material that warrant being skipped or muted by a media content filter. If no filter will even be produced for the disc in question then a display menu may be provided indicating that no filter is available. The menu will also likely allow the user to select the Normal Play option to play the disc without a filter.

If the disc content is the potential target of a filter the media player checks the master index to determine if such a filter is available for loading. If the master index indicates that the filter is not available the player then determines whether the master index has been updated recently from the filter provider. Updating of the master index may be considered recent if it has occurred for example within the last twelve hours. In other embodiments an update may be considered recent only if it has occurred within the last few minutes or hours or within the last few days or weeks. If the information in the master index is considered up to date the media player may present a display menu to indicate that a filter is not available and to allow the user to play the DVD without content filtering.

If the master index indicates that a filter associated with the loaded disc is available or if the master index has not been updated recently the DVD player may be configured to determine whether there is sufficient available memory for an additional filter table. If there is insufficient memory then the user may be prompted through an on screen menu arrangement to select movie titles for which associated filter tables will be deleted from memory to allow for storage of new filter tables.

Referring again to Table 3 row B illustrates the action taken by the media player when the DVD drive is empty and the user inserts a DVD in the DVD drive but a matching filter table file is not stored in the flash memory of the DVD but is listed in the master index. Upon detection of this scenario the DVD player causes display of the menu shown in . Here the user has the option of playing the movie back without filtering by selecting Normal Play or the user may upload the filter data for the movie title by selecting a Filtered Play button. The status of the RSM drive upon insertion of the DVD is irrelevant. If Filtered Play is selected and the user inserts a removable memory into the RSM drive the DVD player detects the presence of the memory and checks to determine whether the memory has filter data e.g. one or more .CPF files containing a filter table for the movie title present in the DVD. If so the DVD player uploads the filter data to local memory of the DVD player and produces a series of menus prompting the user to activate various filter types.

If a removable memory is not in the RSM drive when the Filtered Play button is selected the menu screen of is shown and the user is prompted through an onscreen message to load filter data for the movie on the DVD. The user may load a DVD with the filter data into the DVD reader or the user may load a removable memory containing the filter data into the RSM reader . In either scenario the player will search the inserted memory medium for the appropriate filter data and upload it to local memory. As mentioned above the player may also communicate with the filter data on the memory media rather than upload it to local memory. If the appropriate movie filter data is not present the user will be prompted with an onscreen message.

Referring again to Table 3 row C illustrates the action taken by the media player when the DVD drive is empty the user inserts a DVD into the DVD drive and a matching filter file is not present in local memory or listed in the master index. In this scenario the media player displays the menu screen of . The menu highlights the Normal Play button which if selected facilitates normal i.e. unfiltered playback of the movie. If the user scrolls down to the Filtered Play button and selects it the user is prompted to load a memory e.g. DVD or USB memory containing the appropriate filter data as discussed above with regard to . It is possible that filter data e.g. a filter table has been developed for the movie title but is not present in the master index of the DVD player. Each time new filter data is uploaded to local memory the master index is updated with a complete listing of all filter tables available at that time. Thus if it has been some time since the filter data was uploaded to local memory the master index may not reflect all available movie filters.

Row D illustrates the action taken by the media player when a DVD is inserted in the DVD drive but playback has not begun and the RSM reader is empty. In this scenario a user inserts a memory into the RSM reader. The memory has a file containing filter data such as a .CPF file but contains no other files folders data etc. The file may have a filter table for one particular movie title or media filter tables for many different movie titles. Upon insertion of the memory into the drive the media player displays the menu screen of . The screen has three selection options Main Menu New Releases and All Movies . Selection of the Main Menu button returns the user to a main menu. Selection of the New Releases button displays all movie titles for recently developed filter tables on the memory and the All Movies button selects all movie titles with a filter table in the memory. To upload filters to internal player memory the user selects either the New Releases or All Movies button and is presented with a screen that lists movie filters associated with the button. One example of such a filter table listing selection menu is shown in . By scrolling up or down the movie title list the user may select any of the movie filters listed and upload the filters to flash memory of the DVD player subject to memory availability. At a minimum the user selects the particular filter for the movie they would like to play. Scrolling up or down the list highlights individual movie filters for which the screen also includes other details concerning the highlighted movie filter such as the number of DVD releases for the movie a description of the highlighted release the aspect ratio of the release the language of the movie the date the filter was created and the catalog number.

Still referring to Table 3 row E illustrates the action taken by the media player when a DVD is inserted in the DVD drive but playback has not begun and the RSM reader is empty. In this scenario a user inserts a memory into the RSM reader but instead of one file with filter data the memory has more than one file which may be two or more filter files or other file types e.g. .JPG .DOC etc. . The DVD player searches the list of files to determine whether any files containing filter data are present. In one example all files with filter data have a .CPF extension and all such files are displayed for the user. After the user selects a .CPF file control is passed to the screen of for the user to select particular movie filters to upload to flash memory.

Row F illustrates the action taken by the media player when a DVD is playing and the RSM reader is empty. In this scenario a user inserts a memory into the RSM reader causing playback to stop. Then depending on whether one CPF file is present or multiple files are present control is passed to either the screen of or the operations associated with Row E occur respectively.

Row G illustrates the action taken by the media player when a DVD is playing and the RSM reader has a memory installed and the memory is removed during playback. In this scenario no action is taken i.e. the movie continues to play.

Row H illustrates the action taken by the media player when a memory is inserted in the RSM reader and the user is working with a screen for selecting movie title filters e.g. the screen of or . If the memory is removed the video player exits the filter screen and displays the DVD player main menu screen.

Row I illustrates the action taken by the media player when a memory is in the RSM reader but the user is working in some screen besides a filter selection screen and the user removes the memory. In such a scenario the media player maintains the state the player is in and takes no action based upon the removal of the memory.

Finally Row J illustrates the action taken by the media player when information is being accessed from a memory in the RSM reader and the memory is removed during the accessing. In such a scenario the media player returns to the state immediately proceeding the action of downloading. For example if the user was acting in the screen of to select various filters for uploading and had initiated uploading control is returned to the screen of . The user may be prompted with a message indicating that uploading was interrupted by removal of the memory.

Disclosed herein are various aspects of a media player and related method for loading media content filters to a media player by way of a removable memory media. While the disclosed embodiments are described in specific terms other embodiments encompassing principles of the invention are also possible. Also while specific examples of menus presented to the user have been provided many other ways of presenting the same or related information may be employed to the same end. Further while specific examples particularly discuss a DVD player other types of media players capable of displaying movies and other media presentations may also be utilized within the scope of the invention.

Throughout the application reference is made to integrated local filter storage memory of the media player. While such memory is ordinarily thought of as memory permanently installed on a printed circuit board of the player the removable storage media may also be used to store the filters employed by the player. For example memory sticks USB sticks removable flash memory and the like connectable to the RSM reader of the player accessible by the user may be employed to similar end. As a result the removable storage medium may be coupled with a home computer of the user. The user may then download the filters over the Internet from the filter provider storing those filters into the removable storage medium. The medium could then be removed from the home computer and connected to the media player by way of the RSM interface of the player designed for the medium such as a USB port. The player could then access the filters for use in filtering the content of the DVDs associated with those filters. It is also possible to obtain the removable memory media containing filter information by other means such as mail order from a movie outlet or on the same memory as the media.

Further operations and menus are presented in one particular order. The order however is but one example of the way that operations and menus may be provided. Operations and menus may be rearranged modified or eliminated in any particular implementation while still conforming to aspects of the invention.

The present invention extends to methods systems and computer program products for automatically identifying and filtering portions of multimedia content during the decoding process. A media player conforming to aspects of the present invention may include a special purpose or general purpose computer including various computer hardware a television system an audio system and or combinations of the foregoing. In all cases the described embodiments should be viewed a exemplary of the present invention rather than as limiting it s scope.

Embodiments within the scope of the present invention also include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media may be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM DVD CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media. Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions.

