---

title: Complimentary discrete fourier transform processor
abstract: Method and apparatus for a complimentary discrete Fourier transform processor. An input signal is sampled, samples then being sequentially delayed, channelized, and processed. Synthesized outputs are provided in complimentary form. Channels are independent so as to allow for the application of gain, equalization and interference cancellation on a channel-by-channel basis. Both real and complex valued input signals may be processed. The invention optimizes computational efficiency.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07620673&OS=07620673&RS=07620673
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 07620673
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060307
---
This patent application claims the priority benefit of the filing date of provisional application Ser. No. 60 722 081 having been filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office on Sep. 19 2005 and now incorporated by reference herein.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.

This invention relates generally to the field of signal analysis and synthesis whereby electronic signals are decomposed into independent frequency components processed and reconstituted. The invention relates more specifically to signal analysis methods and means which minimize the undesired products or artifacts of aforesaid signal analysis and synthesis.

The acquisition of an analog signal often results in a digital sequence x n that contains not only the signal of interest but also other signals of interest and or additive distortion. In the case that the lower band of frequencies are retained the sequence can be low pass filtered by a filter h n as 1 where the symbol represents convolution. Subsequently the result is decimated by M to form 2 with n and M integers. The offset n is an arbitrary integer value between 0 and M 1 inclusive. It is assumed that M 1 is chosen together with the low pass cut off frequency to achieve an acceptable maximum level of aliasing distortion while simultaneously minimizing the output sample rate.

The offset n is not normally an accessible parameter. Thus the notion of multiple phases associated with the resulting output sampling i.e the set of possible outputs represents a poly phase system. In this example there exist M possible outcomes of the low pass filter and decimation system. When one additionally considers the use of finite impulse response FIR filters it can be easily shown that alternatively the decimation can occur before the filtering to achieve the same result. Computationally this is very important especially when only 1 of the M output channels of a particular sample phase is needed. This concept is extended by the poly phase filter bank to allow for computationally efficient frequency channelization. Such poly phase architectures inherently translate the frequency response of the low pass filter prototype h n . This results in the desired M channel filter bank.

A Discrete Fourier Transform poly phase filter architecture is presented in . This particular architecture is referred to as the Modified DFT MDFT filter bank 1 and is representative of the prior state of the art. The MDFT filter bank combines the key characteristics of DFT filter banks of linear phase analysis and synthesis filters efficient realization and inherent alias cancellation for near perfect reconstruction. A particular disadvantage of this and related prior art techniques however is the need to maintain signal fidelity between the IDFT and DFT operations shown as dashed lines in the figure. Fidelity is required to maintain alias cancellation. This precludes the use of such prior art MDFT filter banks in certain equalization and data compression applications. Another disadvantage of the prior art is the additional computational complexity shown between the IDFT and DFT operations which include multiplications and selection of real Re and imaginary Im signal components.

The present invention provides a method and apparatus for channelization analysis and synthesis of discrete signals.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a method and apparatus for phase linearity across a process for the channelization analysis and synthesis of discrete signals.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a method and apparatus for computational efficiency to the channelization analysis and synthesis processing of discrete signals.

It is still a further object of the present invention to provide a method and apparatus for near perfect signal reconstruction of discrete signals which have been channelized analyzed and synthesized.

It is yet still a further object of the present invention to provide a method and apparatus for processing real and complex valued input signals.

An additional object of the present invention is to overcome a lack of signal fidelity which has the undesired effect of precluding complete alias cancellation in prior art discrete Fourier transformer DFT filter banks employing DFT and inverse DFT operations.

Briefly stated the present invention achieves these and other objects through method and apparatus for a complimentary discrete Fourier transform processor. An input signal is sampled samples then being sequentially delayed channelized and processed. Synthesized outputs are provided in complimentary form. Channels are independent so as to allow for the application of gain equalization and interference cancellation on a channel by channel basis. Both real and complex valued input signals may be processed. The invention optimizes computational efficiency.

In the fundamental method embodiment of the present invention method for complimentary discrete Fourier transform processing comprises performing an analysis processing step on a discrete signal x n so as to produce M intermediate outputs being incrementally delayed relative to each other by a prescribed amount performing a first synthesis processing step on the M intermediate outputs in parallel with said first synthesis processing step applying gain to each of the M intermediate outputs so as to produce M amplified intermediate outputs and performing a second synthesis processing step thereon so as to produce an output y n negating the output of the first synthesis processing step summing the negated output of the first synthesis processing step with a delayed version of signal x n so as to form a residue performing a complimentary analysis processing step on the residue output so as to produce M complimentary intermediate outputs and applying gain to each of the M complimentary intermediate outputs so as to produce M amplified complimentary intermediate outputs and performing a complimentary synthesis processing step thereon so as to produce a complimentary output y n and delaying output y n by an integer delay of L M so as to align y n with complimentary output y n and summing y n and y n so as to reconstruct the signal x n .

According to an apparatus embodiment of the present invention apparatus for a complimentary discrete Fourier transform processor comprises an analysis processor and a complimentary analysis processor both having M channels M 1 delay elements one each being connected between the inputs of adjacent channels M down samplers the input of the first down sampler being connected to the input of the analysis processor and the input of M 1 successive down samplers being connected to the output of the delay element corresponding to that channel M low pass filters the input of which is connected to the output of the down sampler and a first M point inverse discrete Fourier transformer having M inputs each input being connected to the output of corresponding low pass filter in that channel.

Still according to an apparatus embodiment of the present invention apparatus for a complimentary discrete Fourier transform processor comprises two synthesis processors and one complimentary synthesis processor each having a first M point discrete Fourier transformer having M inputs each input being connected to the corresponding outputs of the first M point inverse discrete Fourier transformer M channels each channel corresponding to an output of the first M point discrete Fourier transformer M low pass filters one each being in and corresponding to one of the M channels wherein the input of the low pass filter is connected to that output of the first M point discrete Fourier transformer corresponding to the channel M up selectors one each being in and corresponding to one of the M channels the input of which is connected to the output of the low pass filter corresponding to the channel M 1 delay element summer pairs each pair being connected between the adjacent outputs of the up selectors wherein the output of first adjacent up selector is connected to the input of the delay element the output of the delay element is connected to the first input of the summer the output of second adjacent up selector is connected to the second input of the summer and where the output of the M 1 summer is connected to the output of the first synthesis processor.

In contrast to and in improvement upon prior art devices the present invention produces discrete signal processing and synthesis without aliasing and at greater processing efficiency.

The above and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following description read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals designate the same elements.

Referring to a CDFT filter bank of the present invention is depicted. It comprises two DFT filter banks each of M channels along with an extra synthesis filter bank. The first filter bank is comprised of an analysis processor and a first synthesis processor . A second synthesis processor operates on the outputs of the analysis processor . The second filter bank is comprised of a complimentary analysis processor and a complimentary synthesis processor .

The input signal x n is processed by both the analysis processor and the signal delay element . The M outputs of the analysis processor are input to the first synthesis processor . By design analysis processor and first synthesis processor together impart an integer delay of N M samples relative to the input x n . The purpose of delay element is to align the input x n with the processed signal from first synthesis processor . The output of first synthesis processor is negated and added in summer to the output of first delay element . The output of summer is a residue signal that is input to complimentary analysis processor .

First and second gain stages and each comprise M individual gain elements and operate on the M main channels and the M complementary channels respectively. The main channels and the complementary channels together represent the decomposition of the input signal into 2M channels.

The complementary synthesis output y n is generated from the residue output of summer . The output of summer is processed sequentially by complimentary analysis processor second gain stage and complimentary synthesis processor . The output of complimentary synthesis processor is the complementary synthesis output y n . To form the main synthesis output y n the main channels from first gain stage are processed by second synthesis processor and then processed by second delay element . Complimentary analysis processor second gain stage and complimentary synthesis processor together impart a processing delay of L M samples. Therefore second delay element is needed to impart an L M sample delay on the output of second synthesis processor to properly align y n with y n .

In the present invention the processing result of the CDFT filter bank is the decimation and frequency channelization of the input signal x n at the inverse DFT IDFT outputs. These interim outputs can then be processed frequency rotated and interpolated to achieve signal reconstruction at the output of first synthesis processor and complimentary synthesis processor . Various signal processing functions can be performed in first and second gain stages and including encoding and decoding. In the CDFT architecture of the present invention an important characteristic is the ability to apply an arbitrary gain g to each channel k of the M main channels and an arbitrary gain g to each channel k of the M complementary channels. This can be useful for interference excision and equalization.

For first analysis processor first synthesis processor and second synthesis processor of the present invention each analysis low pass filter Hthrough Hhave essentially the same magnitude responses but have unique phase responses. Each of these FIR filters has N M taps coefficients and are formed from a low pass filter prototype which satisfies aliasing distortion requirements. The prototype filter is chosen as a symmetric FIR filter with N coefficients. An additional characteristic of the CDFT architecture in the present invention is that the synthesis filters are paired in a particular way with the input sample phased channels.

An important configuration of the present invention to consider is the case where the channel gains g are set to unity. Of interest is the overall response characteristic from the input of first analysis processor to the output of first synthesis processor . Because the effects of the IDFT and DFT processes will cancel in an ideal implementation each filter pair can be combined from an analysis viewpoint. Each sample phased channel from channel 1 to M effectively has a single filter between the down samplers and the up samplers . These composite filters have transfer functions H z H z H z H z H z H z . . . H z H z . This leads to a constraint that is placed on these transfer functions and therefore places a related constraint on the low pass filter prototype design. Specifically for the CDFT architecture herein it is required that each composite transfer function result in the same integer sample delay N M 1 for each channel for all frequencies. This is accomplished by requiring that the corresponding filter coefficients satisfy particular properties the coefficients of hare the time reversed conjugate of h the coefficients of hare the time reversed conjugate of h etc. This ensures the integer delay of N M samples across the entire spectrum. In a similar fashion for complimentary analysis processor and complimentary synthesis processor it is required that each composite transfer function result in the same integer sample delay L M 1 for each channel for all frequencies. This is accomplished by requiring that the corresponding filter coefficients satisfy particular properties the coefficients of h are the time reversed conjugate of h the coefficients of h are the time reversed conjugate of h etc. This ensures the integer delay of L M samples across the entire spectrum.

The real valued prototype low pass filter coefficients can be obtained for example from a design routine such as the firl Matlab command. This command returns the numerator coefficients in a vector b and the denominator coefficient is the scalar a 1. This is accomplished as firl 1 The relative bandwidth parameter w is used to control the amount of overlap between channel frequency responses. Experimentally for values of M from 16 to 128 w can be set to about 0.5 to prevent pass band overlap while values of about 1.0 achieve overlap near 3 dB. If so desired the resulting filter bank response of the CDFT architecture can also be rotated in frequency by simply multiplying the filter coefficients b by a complex exponential sequence at the appropriate frequency 2 . Typically the gain of the prototype filters is set to unity. It should be noted that the CDFT architecture allows for the processing of either real or complex valued inputs x n . A representative 6 channel filter bank response is shown in and . Note for this example that because frequency rotation was not employed on the prototype filter the channel response is split equally between low and high frequencies.

Total reconstruction is obtained by summing y n and y n . To achieve near perfect reconstruction the bandwidths of the main and complementary channels must be carefully chosen. The general approach is to create non overlapping bands in the main channels and choose bandwidths for the complementary channels that are also non overlapping but wide enough to pass the bands rejected by the main channels as shown in . Thus the function of complimentary analysis processor second gain stage and complimentary synthesis processor is to obtain control over the frequencies that are rejected by the main channel. In effect the complementary CDFT poly phase filter becomes a 2M channel device by the proper combination of a pair of M channel filter banks.

Referring to and note that the filter orders are high enough to give relatively sharp transition bands. Also note that as seen in the complementary channels are properly rotated in frequency to pass those frequencies which are rejected in the main channels. Again this is accomplished by simply shifting the frequency response of the prototype filter for complimentary analysis processor and complimentary synthesis processor see . This implies that the coefficients of the complementary channel filters are complex valued. This does not present a problem with the CDFT architecture nor with the overall complementary filter of the present invention.

Having described preferred embodiments of the invention with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

