---

title: Conducting nanotubes or nanostructures based composites, method of making them and applications
abstract: An electromagnetic interference (EMI) shielding material includes a matrix of a dielectric or partially conducting polymer, such as foamed polystyrene, with carbon nanotubes or other nanostructures dispersed therein in sufficient concentration to make the material electrically conducting. The composite is formed by dispersing the nanotube material in a solvent in which the dielectric or partially conducting polymer is soluble and mixing the resulting suspension with the dielectric or partially conducting polymer. A foaming agent can be added to produce a lightweight foamed material. An organometallic compound can be added to enhance the conductivity further by decomposition into a metal phase.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08424200&OS=08424200&RS=08424200
owner: University of Virginia Patent Foundation
number: 08424200
owner_city: Charlottesville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061219
---
The present application is as national stage filing of International Application No. PCT US2006 048165 filed on Dec. 19 2006 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 751 705 filed Dec. 19 2005 these disclosures are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety into the present disclosure.

The work leading to the present invention was supported by National Science Foundation Grant No. GA10510 and NASA Grant No. GG10747. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention is directed to electromagnetic interference EMI shielding materials and more particularly to such materials comprising nanotubes nanofibers or nanostructures dispersed in dielectric or partially conducting hosts. The present invention is further directed to a method for preparing such shielding materials and various applications.

Electrically conducting polymer matrix composites have gained popularity for electromagnetic interference shielding applications because they are lightweight resistant to corrosion and flexible and easily processed. These kinds of flexible conductive composites may be used for typical antenna systems lightning protected aircraft composite panels avionics line replaceable unit LRU enclosures connector gaskets electrostatic and space charge dissipation materials different types of electronic pressure sensitive switches or sensors and many other uses. These polymeric composites must be made conductive by compounding them with an electrically conducting filler such as metal particles and filaments carbon particles e.g. graphite and carbon black and carbon fibers in order to achieve the required shielding effectiveness. For any filler the EMI shielding effectiveness increases with increasing filler concentration in the composites but the maximum filler loading is limited by the poor composite mechanical properties at high filler loadings resulting from the poor filler matrix bonding. For materials and process cost saving and good mechanical properties the attainment of a high shielding effectiveness at a low filler loading is desirable.

Also for effective and practical EMI shielding systems being lightweight is an important technological requirement. However to date polymer foams with conductive materials dispersed therethrough have not been reported in the art.

It is therefore an object of the invention to achieve high shielding effectiveness at low filler loading.

It is still another object of the invention to provide lightweight yet effective shielding materials.

It is yet another object of the invention to provide an inexpensive process for fabricating such shielding materials.

To achieve the above and other objects the present invention is directed to effective electromagnetic interference EMI shielding materials that can be fabricated by dispersing small high aspect ratio conducting cylinders into dielectric or partially conducting hosts. As a novel nanomaterial carbon nanotubes CNTs have small unit sizes high aspect ratios and many extraordinary mechanical and electrical properties. Such materials are called nanocomposites.

Multiwalled nanotubes MWNTs can be used in the present invention. Successful results have been demonstrated with low cost carbon fibers MWNTs and combinations thereof.

Carbon nanofibers and nanotubes as compared to conventional metals and carbon fillers have remarkable structural mechanical and electrical properties such as smaller diameters larger aspect ratios and much higher conductivities and strengths. The use of these carbon nanostructures as fillers in polymeric composites allows systems with low filler loadings to provide the desired electrical and EMI shielding properties.

According to the electromagnetic wave percolation theory if the conductive filler in the polymer possesses a high aspect ratio then the filler forms a conductive network easily and the critical concentration of the conductive filler required to achieve the EMI shielding effect is low. Additionally electromagnetic radiation at high frequencies penetrates only the near surface region of an electrical conductor. This is known as the skin effect. The depth at which the field drops to 1 e of the incident value is called the skin depth which is given by 2 f where f frequency permeability and electrical conductivity. Hence the skin depth decreases with increasing frequency permeability or conductivity.

The invention is further directed to a preparation process for CNT polymer nanocomposites. We developed an efficient technique to disperse carbon nanotubes within polymer matrix and fabricate carbon nanotube polymer nanocomposites. In one embodiment the preparation procedure of CNT polystyrene nanocomposite was as follows. Initially a fixed amount of nanotube was dispersed in a toluene solution containing a nonionic surfactant such as polyethylene glycol. The solution was contained in an ultrasonic bath to obtain a dispersed nanotube suspension which was then combined with the polystyrene solution in toluene. The final mixture was further sonicated to give a black colored stable solution with no detectable solid precipitation. The resulting solution was sprayed onto a flat plate by a micro sprayer and dried at room temperature. Subsequently the dried film was thermally cured in an air circulating oven to remove toluene from the thin film. A series of composite films were prepared with carbon nanotube loading ranging from 0 to 20 wt percent by weight .

Yonglai Yang Mool C. Gupta Kenneth L. Dudley and Roland W. Lawrence. Novel carbon nanotube polystyrene foam composites for electromagnetic interference shielding 2005 5 2131.

Yonglai Yang Mool C. Gupta Kenneth L. Dudley and Roland W. Lawrence. Conductive carbon nanofiber polymer foam structures 2005 17 1999.

Yonglai Yang Mool C. Gupta Kenneth L. Dudley and Roland W. Lawrence. A comparative study of EMI shielding properties of carbon nanofiber and multi walled carbon nanotube filled polymer composites 2005 5 927.

Yonglai Yang Mool C. Gupta Kenneth L. Dudley and Roland W. Lawrence. Electrical conductivity and electromagnetic interference shielding of multi walled carbon nanotube filled polymer composites 2005 858E HH5.3.

Yonglai Yang Mool C. Gupta Kenneth L. Dudley and Roland W. Lawrence. The fabrication and electrical properties of carbon nanofibre polystyrene composites 2004 15 1545.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention will be disclosed in detail with reference to the drawings in which like reference numerals refer to like elements or steps throughout.

In order to obtain the test specimens for conductivity and EMI shielding measurements CNT polymer composite thin films were folded cut into pieces put into a mold and hot pressed in step at 250 C. under 20 MPa into disked shape samples with 25.4 mm in diameter and 1 mm in thickness in step .

The dispersion state of carbon nanotubes within the polymer matrix is important in order to obtain a homogeneous and uniform composite. A photograph of the dispersed carbon nanotube polystyrene dilute suspension in toluene with different nanotube loadings is shown in . It is evident that the suspension turns from a clear pure polymer solution into a black solution with increasing nanotube loading and no traces of carbon deposits or other particulates are observed. This is ascribed to the use of a nonionic surfactant which was used as a dispersing agent to improve the dispersion of nanotubes in solvent. The surfactant was coated onto the nanotube surface which prevented the dispersed nanotubes from reaggregation based on the steric repulsion force between the surfactant coated nanotubes. When the polystyrene solution was combined into the nanotube suspension the highly viscous solution restricted Brownian motion and sedimentation thus further stabilizing the nanotube dispersion from reaggregation.

Scanning electron microscopy SEM was used to investigate the morphology and the embedded nature of nanotubes in the composites. shows a typical SEM image of the fractured surface which reveals that nanotubes are well dispersed and embedded uniformly throughout the polymer matrix. This uniform microstructure is attributed to the solution spraying technique in the formation of composite films which allows the solvent to evaporate quickly and reduces the possibility of sedimentation and aggregation of carbon nanotubes.

The DC conductivity of the composites was measured. shows a DC conductivity measurement setup . That setup was designed by coupling a Keithley 6105 resistivity test fixture a Keithley 614 electrometer and a power supply .

The present embodiment provides a novel and simple technique for producing CNT polymer foam structures. Being lightweight is an important technological requirement for the development of practical EMI shielding systems. Therefore we demonstrated the fabrication of foam structures to further reduce the weight of carbon nanotube polymer composites. We used a gas producing foaming agent 2 2 Azoisobutyronitrile AIBN which was added to the mixture solution of dispersed carbon nanotubes and polystyrene step and produced a carbon nanotube polystyrene foam precursor. Of course any alternative foaming technique could be used instead or in addition one such foaming technique involves introducing air into the mixture. The foamable carbon nanotube polystyrene composite films were obtained after spraying and drying the foam precursor. In the final hot compression molding process the melted polystyrene matrix filled with carbon nanotubes was expanded by the nitrogen gas originated through decomposing foaming agent azo compound AIBN to form carbon nanotube polystyrene foam structures. This is a simple and effective strategy to produce carbon nanotube polymer foam structures with uniform cell distribution. are typical SEM images of such carbon nanotube polystyrene foam structures.

It is evident that a foam structure with substantially spherical bubbles was formed throughout the carbon nanotube polymer composite as shown in . The formation of such uniform foam structure is attributed to the use of a solid foaming agent AIBN which is stable at room temperature but which readily decomposes at a higher temperature to give off a large volume of nitrogen gas. DC conductivity measurements indicated that such foam structure is electrically conductive and has a typical percolation behavior of carbon nanotube polymer solid composite. The EMI shielding effectiveness data demonstrated that such conductive foam structures can be used as EMI shielding materials with light weight.

The CNT polymer test specimens with different CNT loadings were delivered to NASA Langley for EMI shielding measurements. shows the schematic diagram of the EMI shielding measurement setup . An HP 8510 vector network analyzer VNA was used to measure the S parameters of CNT polymer composites in the frequency ranges of 8.2 12.4 GHz X band and 12.4 18 GHz Ku Band .

Here the S parameter is a scattering parameter i.e. how energy scatters from a material or device. The test sample was cut into a rectangle to fit an aluminum waveguide sample holder . After the sample was placed into the sample holder the sample holder was then fitted into the test fixture for the two port measurement once in place the composite sample completely filled the waveguide opening in the waveguide . A full two port VNA calibration was performed at the beginning of each test sequence to correct for systematic measurement errors by referencing to known boundary conditions. The radio frequency energy generated in the vector network analyzer was directed from the test port in the test set to a transceiver and thence through the waveguide into the target test sample as an incident wave I to produce a reflected wave R and a transmitted wave T. Then the magnitude and phase response of the material under test to the incident stimulus of microwave energy was measured and recorded by using 201 point averaging. The measured scattering parameters included S the forward reflection coefficient S the forward transmission coefficient S the reverse reflection coefficient and S the reverse transmission coefficient. The units of S parameters are decibels dB . While the reflected wave R was measured by the transceiver the transmitted wave T was measured by a transceiver which supplied a signal to a port in the test set .

The EMI shielding effectiveness of CNT polymer composites with various loadings of carbon nanotubes as a function of frequency is presented in . The results exhibit that the shielding effectiveness of all composites is almost independent of frequency from 8.2 GHz to 12.4 GHz. Also it can be seen from that the shielding effectiveness of such composite enhances gradually with increasing CNT loading in the composite shown as percentage by weight or wt . The shielding effectiveness of the CNT polystyrene composite containing 7 wt CNTs is measured to be 26 dB in the measured frequency region. The polystyrene matrix in the composite is electrically insulating and does not contribute significantly to shielding. As a result the formation of conductive CNT networks in the insulating polymer matrix renders composite the ability to effectively shield electromagnetic radiation. These results imply that such CNT polystyrene composites can be commercially applied for the EMI shielding materials.

The specific EMI shielding effectiveness of the foam composite containing 7 wt carbon nanotubes is calculated to be 33.1 dB cm g which is much higher than that of typical metals compared to 10 dB cm g for solid copper . Thus the present invention can provide an effective and lightweight EMI shield.

Materials other than simple carbon nanotubes nanofibers and nanostructures can be used. For example metal nanowires nanotubes nanofibers or other nanostructures could be used to form electrically conducting nanocomposites. Another option is to introduce an organometallic compound an organic compound containing a metal which in this case could be a metal such as gold silver aluminum or copper into the suspension and then heating the solution to convert the organometallic compound into a metallic phase to form metal coated nanotubes nanofibers or nanostructures of carbon or the like. Such use of organometallic compounds can increase the conductivity of the nanotubes by a factor of ten or more. Still another option is to add an organic compound into the suspension and to decompose the organic compound by UV radiation or thermal radiation to convert that organic compound into a conducting phase to coat the nanotubes nanostructures or nanofibers. The nanotubes nanofibers nanowires or other nanostructures could be vertically aligned to provide a highly conductive path e.g. by applying an electromagnetic field during fabrication. The nanocomposites could be fabricated in film bulk or fiber forms.

The invention has utility in areas other than those disclosed above. For example the material could be formulated to improve any or all of its thermal properties magnetic properties structural properties and surface properties. As an example of the last the material could be made hydrophilic or hydrophobic.

Sensors could be fabricated based on the disclosed nanocomposites. For example a change in a sensor s resistance could be monitored to measure strain or other physical and chemical parameters of interest.

Yet another utility for the present invention lies in the area of biosensors. Electrically conducting polymers are known to have numerous features that allow them to act as excellent materials for immobilization of biomolecules and rapid electron transfer for the fabrication of efficient biosensors. Such polymers have wide applications in health care food industries and environmental monitoring.

While a preferred embodiment has been set forth above those skilled in the art who have reviewed the present invention will readily appreciate that other embodiments can be realized within the scope of the invention. Some such embodiments have been noted above. Moreover numerical values are illustrative rather than limiting as are disclosures of specific chemical compositions. Therefore the present invention should be construed as limited only by the appended claims.

