---

title: Hang-timer for providing recording instructions
abstract: A hang-timer device is disclosed that is capable of issuing recording instructions to a recording device, such as a digital camera. The hang-timer can measure a static acceleration profile of a wearer of the hang-timer, and based on this static acceleration profile it can issue recording instructions to a recording device. For example, if the static acceleration profile changes from about 1 g to about 0 g, the hang-timer can issue instructions for the recording device to record; additionally, if the profile changes from about 0 g to about 1 g, it can issue instructions to stop recording. Moreover, the hang-timer can issue instructions for the recording device to record some period of time before a hang-time event and some period of time after a hang-time event. Various other such variations on the general notion described above are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07617069&OS=07617069&RS=07617069
owner: Drop Zone Corp.
number: 07617069
owner_city: North Bend
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060103
---
This application is related to U.S. Non provisional application Ser. No. 11 207 858 filed Aug. 18 2005 titled HANG TIMER FOR DETERMINING TIME OF FLIGHT OF AN OBJECT which claims priority to U.S. Provisional application Ser. No. 60 646 742 filed Jan. 25 2005 titled DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING TIME OF FLIGHT OF A MOVING AND JUMPING OBJECT. This Application is also related to U.S. Non provisional Application Ser. No. 11 286 092 filed Nov. 23 2005 titled ENHANCED HANG TIMER FOR CONSOLE SIMULATION. All these applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Hang time events such as snowboard jumps or mountain bike jumps can be exciting to experience and they can be just as exciting to watch. This may be true whether the individual watching a hang time event is a jumper or non jumper such as a spectator. Current technology allows for the recording of such hang time events. Cameras can be used whether digital or not to record any exciting event in a variety of sporting activities.

Thus it would be advantageous to provide mechanisms that can select as to when such hang time events should be or shouldn t be recorded. Specifically it would be advantageous to provide mechanisms for instructing a recording device to record events that are relevant to hang timer content.

Mechanisms are disclosed herein that provide recording instructions to recording devices and modules. In one aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter a hang timer can be used to provide such recording instructions. The hang timer may determine among other things the static acceleration of the wearer of the hang timer and based on this measurement it may instruct a recording module when to record a hang time event of the wearer and when not to record the hang time event of a wearer.

Specifically the hang timer can instruct a recording device such as a digital camera to start recording a hang time event of a hang timer wearer when the when static acceleration of the wearer changes from 1 g to 0 g. Additionally it can instruct the digital camera to stop recording the hang time event when the static acceleration changes from 0 g to 1 g. In still other aspects it can instruct to start recording some preset time before a hang time event and some preset time after the hang time event.

It should be noted that this Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Various aspects of a hang timer are provided where the hang timer is configured to provide recording instructions. At the outset a general description of the hang timer is given. This general description is then followed by a discussion regarding the capabilities of the hang timer to provide recording instructions to a recording device whether via an application programming interface API or otherwise. Such provided instructions may be at least partly based static acceleration data measured by the hang timer.

In one aspect of the present subject matter mechanisms are disclosed for detecting calculating and displaying the time of flight s or hang time s of a moving and jumping object such as for example a skier snowboarder or a mountain biker by using in novel ways one or more accelerometers secured within a small wearable device. As used herein the terms time of flight and hang time are synonymous and simply refer to the amount or period of time that a selected object is not contacting or off of a surface of the earth or any fixture attached thereto. Thus in one aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter a mechanism is directed to an accelerometer based device for determining approximate time of flights of hang times of a skier snowboarder or mountain biker who moves jumps and lands a plurality of times along a surface of the earth or some fixture attached thereto. A snowboarder for example will experience a static acceleration of i about 1 g when the snowboarder is contacting or on the surface and ii about 0 g when the snowboarder is not contacting or off of the surface because he or she has projected off of a jump.

More specifically the time of flight or hang time of a snowboarder may be determined in accordance with the present subject matter by generating a static acceleration profile one or more accelerometer output signals over a period of time that includes at least one moving jumping and landing event and then appropriately analyzing the static acceleration profile.

Alternatively a first and second dual axis accelerometer can be configured to detect a first second and third static acceleration component of the object along three mutually perpendicular axes defined as an x axis y axis and z axis respectively. In such a scenario a static acceleration of an object over a period of time would be equal to the vector sum of the first second and third static acceleration components.

Thus and in view of the foregoing and with reference to in another aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter a small wearable device is shown that is designed and configured to determine the approximate time of flight or hang time of an object such as for example a skier a snowboarder a skater a biker or a jumper who moves jumps and lands along a surface of the earth. As shown in the device comprises a housing one or more accelerometers whether a dual axis a tri axis or any equivalent accelerometer secured within the housing a microprocessor in electrical communication with the one or more accelerometers and a display screen in electrical communication with the microprocessor .

The housing is preferably made of a two piece rigid plastic material such as a polycarbonate. However it may be made of a metal such as stainless steel. The housing preferably encloses in an essentially liquid tight manner the one or more accelerometers and the microprocessor as well as a battery not shown used as the power source .

The one or more accelerometers is are preferably a single MEMS based linear tri axis accelerometer that functions on the principle of differential capacitance. As is appreciated by those skilled in the art acceleration causes displacement of certain silicon structures resulting in a change in capacitance. A signal conditioning CMOS complementary metal oxide semiconductor ASIC application specific integrated circuit embedded and provided with the accelerometer is capable of detecting and transforming changes in capacitance into an analog output voltage which is proportional to acceleration. The output signals are then sent to the microprocessor for data manipulation and time of flight calculations.

In accordance with the present subject matter the one or more accelerometers are generally configured to detect the static acceleration over at least first second and third periods of time as the skier snowboarder skater biker or jumper not shown respectively moves jumps in at least first second and third trajectories and lands at least first second and third times along the surface. In so doing the skier snowboarder skater biker or jumper defines at least respective first second and third time of flight events.

The one or more accelerometers are generally further configured to transmit at least first second and third accelerometer output electrical signals not shown that corresponds to the static acceleration of the skier snowboarder skater biker or jumper during the first second and third time of flight events. In addition the microprocessor is generally configured to calculate the approximate time of flight of the skier snowboarder skater biker or jumper during the first second and third time of flight events from the first second and third accelerometer output electrical signals respectively which may be pulse width modulated PWM signals . The microprocessor is generally further configured to transmit at least first second and third microprocessor output electrical voltage signals not shown that correspond to the calculated approximate time of flights of the skier snowboarder skater biker or jumper during the first second and third time of flight events.

In this regard the microprocessor is generally configured by means of appropriate programming as is appreciated by those skilled in the art to calculate i the cumulative time of flight associated with the first second and third time of flight events and ii the greatest time of flight selected from the first second and third time of flight events. The microprocessor is also configured to calculate iii the average time of flight of the first second and third time of flight events.

The device may further comprise a memory component that is in electrical communication with the microprocessor . The memory component is generally configured to store one or more values that correspond to the approximate time of flights associated with the first second and third time of flight events. Moreover the memory component may be configured to store a plurality values that correspond to i the approximate time of flights associated with the first second and third time of flight events thereby providing a history of different time of flights ii the cumulative time of flight associated with the first second and third time of flight events and iii the greatest time of flight selected from the first second and third time of flight events.

Finally and as shown the display screen is in electrical communication with the microprocessor . As shown the display screen is preferably on a face of the housing . The display screen is generally configured to display in a readable format the approximate time of flights associated with the first second and third time of flight events. Exemplary screen shots of several possible output displays of the display screen are provided in .

The output displays may be liquid crystal displays LCDs such as monochrome Standard LCD with an electroluminescent backlight. The backlight can be activated when pressing a button and remain active until no buttons are pressed for several seconds. Moreover as for the layout of the display as is shown in the type of hang time that can be displayed varies it can be either the Best hang time the Average or Avg hang time the Current hang time the Total hang time and the History of hang times and so on.

Furthermore the device can not only display these various times but it can also display other information when it is used in different modes. For example in hang timer mode as mentioned above a best time an average time a total time a current time and a history of times can be displayed additionally as indicated above the sensitivity of measuring hang time can be displayed . In temperature mode the temperature can be displayed either in degrees Celsius or Fahrenheit with current low and high temperatures. In stopwatch mode the device provides typical features found in a stopwatch including lap times set times counting times and so on. In clock mode the device provides typical features found in a clock or watch including the current time date and so on. Finally in set mode the device allows the setting of times months years and so on. These modes discussed above hang timer mode temperature mode stopwatch mode clock mode and set mode are merely exemplary modes and other equivalent modes are provided by the device which would be apparent to any person skilled in the art.

Just as an example of one particular feature in one particular mode the sensitivity function in the hang timer mode allows for the adjustment of sensitivity when measuring hang time. Thus if the sensitivity is set on a first level any hang times less than 0.1 seconds are ignored. Conversely if the sensitivity is set on a fifth level any hang times less than 2 seconds are ignored. Of course there are intervening levels between the first and the fifth level with corresponding time intervals. Furthermore the 0.1 seconds and 2 seconds values for the first and fifth levels respectively are just exemplary and may be adjusted and set differently depending on the context in which the device is used. For example the device may have different levels of sensitivity for snowboarding than for mountain biking.

In another aspect the present subject matter is directed to methods for determining approximate time of flights of a skier or snowboarder as well as a skater a biker or a jumper depending on the scenario who moves jumps and lands a plurality of times along a surface. The method of the present subject matter generally comprises at least the following steps detecting by use of one or more accelerometers secured within a housing the static acceleration of a skier or snowboarder over a first period of time as the skier or snowboarder moves jumps in a first trajectory and lands for a first time along a surface thereby defining a first time of flight event calculating from the detected static acceleration over the first period of time the approximate time of flight of the skier or snowboarder during the first time of flight event detecting the static acceleration of the skier or snowboarder over a second period of time as the skier or snowboarder moves jumps in a second trajectory and lands for a second time along the surface thereby defining a second time of flight event calculating from the detected static acceleration over the second period of time the approximate time of flight of the skier or snowboarder during the second time of flight event comparing the calculated approximate time of flights of the skier or snowboarder over the first and second period of times and determining one or both of i the cumulative time of flight over the first and second period of times and ii the greater time of flight selected between the first and second time of flight events. The cumulative and greater time of flights may then be displayed on a display screen situated on a face of the device as i a first numeric value representative of the cumulative time of flight and ii a second numeric value representative of the greater time of flight.

In further aspect of this method the calculated approximate time of flights of the skier or snowboarder over the first and second period of times may be compared so as to determine iii the average time of flight over the first and second period of times. The average time of flight may then be displayed on the display screen as iii a third numeric value representative of the average time of flight.

In still further aspects of this method the static acceleration of the skier or snowboarder over a third period of time is detected as the skier or snowboarder moves jumps in a third trajectory and lands for a third time along the surface thereby defining a third time of flight event. In this aspect the additional steps comprise at least calculating from the detected static acceleration over the third period of time the approximate time of flight of the skier or snowboarder during the third time of flight event comparing the calculated approximate time of flights of the skier or snowboarder over the first second and third period of times and determining i the cumulative time of flight over the first second and third period of times and ii the greatest time of flight selected from the first second and third time of flight events and displaying on the display screen i a fourth numeric value representative of the cumulative time of flight and ii a fifth numeric value representative of the greatest time of flight. The calculated approximate time of flights of the skier or snowboarder over the first second and third period of times may then be compared to determine iii the average time of flight over the first second and third period of times. The average time of flight may then be displayed on the display screen as iii a sixth numeric value representative of the average time of flight over the first second and third period of times.

In yet another aspect computer readable instructions are used for determining the time of flight of an object. The computer readable instructions are implemented in any type of device which might benefit from the measuring of time of flight whether the device is a hang timer device a cellular phone or an MP3 player. For example a cellular phone might employ the computer readable instructions so that vital hardware is protected shut off or locked as may be the case before the cellular phone drops to the ground. Having the ability to measure changes in static acceleration may be vital in protecting such a device.

Thus the computer readable instructions may comprise of measuring a first static acceleration and a second static acceleration using an accelerometer and then computing a first change in magnitude from the first static acceleration to the second static acceleration where the first change in magnitude corresponds to a take off event of an object for example when the cellular phone falls out of the hands of an individual and computing a following second change in magnitude from the second static acceleration back to the first static acceleration where the second change in magnitude corresponds to a landing event of the object when the cellular phone hits the ground . The same technology may be used to protect MP3 players and all other kinds of devices whether CD players gaming devices and other equivalent electronic devices which may benefit from knowing beforehand when they will hit the ground.

A high level flow chart that depicts certain steps associated with calculating the time of flight or hang time of an object in accordance with an embodiment of the present subject matter has been provided as . The device is initialized and any counters are reset . Next the static acceleration data is gathered and either there is a zero gravity condition or there is not. If there is a zero gravity condition the hang time is counted . The hang time is counted and static acceleration data is gathered until the zero gravity condition does not exist anymore. Once there is no more zero gravity the hang time is displayed since in such a situation a user of the device must be on the ground. Exemplary pseudo code that corresponds to the flow chart of has been provided as .

In another embodiment depict a biding or latching mechanism with a securing mechanism that may be used as part of the hang timer device. For example shows that the latching mechanism can be a carabiner clip and shows how that the carabiner clip opens up so as to either attach the hang timer to a wearer or detach the hang timer from a wearer. Interestingly illustrates that the securing mechanism may be a tie wrap . An aperture in the carabiner clip allows the tie wrap to secure the hang timer to a wearer. Such securing may ensure that the hang timer is not merely thrown up in the air to record a hang time that was not actually obtained by the wearer. Thus in one context the securing mechanism may be construed as an anti cheating mechanism ensuring that the only hang times that will be recorded are those actually obtained by the wearer of the hang timer. However the latching and securing mechanisms may be used for other purposes as will be readily recognized by those skilled in the art.

In another aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter a recording device or a recording module if the recording is performed by software instead of hardware as in this aspect such as a digital camera still camera or a video camera etc. can be used in conjunction with a hang timer in order to record hang time event content. The hang timer as disclosed in the above mentioned related applications determines the hang time of a wearer or user of the hang timer by determining the static acceleration. Thus if the static acceleration of the wearer changes from 1 g to 0 g an assumption can be made that the wearer is lunching into a jump and is airborne alternatively if the static acceleration changes from 0 g to 1 g an assumption can be made that the wearer has landed a from a jump and is no longer airborne.

The measurements made by the hang timer can be outputted and used as signals to instruct a recording device in real time when to record and when not to record. For instance the hang timer can instruct the recording device to start recording say five seconds before a jump and five seconds after a jump in order to record an approach to a jump the jump itself and the landing of the jump. In other words the recording device can start recording five seconds before the static acceleration detected by the hang timer changes from about 1 g to about 0 g and the recording device can stop recording five seconds after the static acceleration changes from about 0 g to 1 g.

Per a hang timer user which may be a snowboard jumper with a mounted camera starts out on a ramp . At time t 0 a mounted camera can start recording the jump of the user. The interval between the start of the recording and the actual jump off of the ramp may be some arbitrary interval say which may be five seconds as discussed above. When the user is in the air the camera can keep on recording as the user flies through some trajectory and is about to land. As the user lands on the ground again at time t 3 the camera can keep recording until some time after the landing at time t 4.

This interval between t 3 and t 4 can again be five seconds or any interval of interest which may either be set by the hang timer manufacturer or user. Thus the total time recorded may include the time before the jump the time after the landing and the time the user is actually in the air and not touching the ground the 0 g time interval . Those of skill in the art will appreciated that various set ups of when to record or not to record may be used.

Next in another aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter illustrates the various regimes that can be used in dictating recording time by the hang timer . For instance in a simple scenario the hang timer can tell a recording device to start recording when the static acceleration changes from 1 g to 0 g and to stop recording when it changes from 0 g to 1 g.

In another scenario discussed above the hang timer can instruct the recording device to start recording some time before the jump and to stop recording some time after the jump . This process can be repeated multiple times so that there can be various recording times such as Record  and Record  . These recording times may be longer than the corresponding hang time events such as Hang Time  and Hang Time  respectively or they may be shorter or they may be equal in length depending on the instructions that the hang timer gives.

In this set up what is actually happening is that the hang timer is directing when the recording device should start recording either at time or and when it should stop recording either at time or . However in a different set up the hang timer can instruct which already recorded content in a recording session should be saved or selected for broadcast and which content should not be so used . This set up may be useful in the situation where the hang timer may not know in advance when a hang time event such as a jump will happen and hence it can not start recording five seconds before a jump occurs. Put another way by the time there is an appropriate change in static acceleration it may be too late to start recording something that happened five seconds ago.

To remedy this problem a recording session of an entire run from to involving multiple hang time events and can be accessed by the hang timer . The hang timer can determine which portions of the recording session should be used based on the changes in static acceleration for instance at instances and . Thus only the relevant portions of the recording session can be selected and broadcast for viewing at some location as discussed in more detail below . For example portions of the recording session totaling some seconds before a jump during the jump and some seconds after the landing can be selected.

One way to implement this aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter would be synchronize the times of the hang timer and the recording device not shown such that the hang timer would know which times to select from the recording device. For example if the hang timer and the recording device both started at time t 0 the former measuring static acceleration and the latter recoding hang time event content if at time t x some hang time event occurs and ends at t y the hang timer may want to select data from the recording session of the recording device say from times x to y where may be the time before the jump and also the time after the landing which may be for example five seconds.

Whether the hang timer directly instructs the recoding device when to start and stop recording or if the hang timer selects potions of recording device recording sessions this much is implementation specific. Various other regimes may be used which may enable the hang timer to select the recorded content that it wants. It should be noted that in the first instance where the hang timer instructs the recording device when to record all the recorded content may be all the relevant content. In the second instance where the hang timer selects portions of the recorded session only some of the total recorded content may be relevant content that is the relevant content is the content selected by the hang timer .

In an alternative aspect of the hang timer may use a buffer to record data for a selected time interval. For example the hang timer can use a first in first out FIFO buffer to record and keep storing say 10 seconds of data at any given time and if a hang time event occurs it can select the last 5 seconds of that data that corresponds to the 5 seconds before a hang time event. By so doing the hang timer can show the 5 seconds before the hang time event even though it may not know in advance when the hang time event will occur. Those of skill in the art will appreciate the different kids of buffers that may be used such as ring buffers to perform this function. Moreover different types of memory can be used to store buffered data such as secure digital SD cards or other flash memories and their equivalents.

In another aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter in one exemplary relationship between a hang timer a recording device a broadcasting or relaying station and a viewing location is illustrated. A hang timer can instruct the recording device when to record. The hang timer can also synchronize with the recording device per the discussion above.

In either case once the recording device is recording it can either broadcast its recorded data whether saved buffered or live directly to some viewing location . This can be accomplished by first broadcasting to a station and then broadcasting to the viewing location or alternatively directly broadcasting to a viewing location . In either case the hang timer can determine which data is ultimately displayed . Furthermore the data that does get displayed may identify the individual to whom the data or hang time event belongs since the hang timer can be personalized and thus identify the hang timer wearer or user.

One way that the hang timer can make a determination of when the jumper is entering a downward trajectory which might prompt the stopping of recording is by using an altimeter that can report when a change of altitude is downward as is disclosed in the above referenced related applications which teach the use of not only altimeters in conjunction with the hang timer but also magnetometers global positioning GPS devices and the like. In short the hang timer may not only use its accelerometers to measure static acceleration and based on this measurement instruct recording devices when to start and stop recording but also may use other components.

Next the hang timer can also instruct recording times for cameras that are bound to the jumper jumping vehicles such as snowboards or to the jumper himself if the camera is mounted to the jumper s helmet . In contrast to the ramp based cameras the snowboard based cameras may want to record the entire trajectory of the jumper . This means that the hang timer can take into account various recording devices and issue specialized recording instructions to each recording device. For example if the hang timer knows it is interfacing with a ramp based camera it may issue record only on upward trajectory instructions whereas if it knows that it is interfacing with a snowboard based camera it may issue record the whole trajectory of the jump instructions.

The hang timer can instruct recording devices either directly or indirectly. For instance the hang timer can directly instruct a ground based camera to record the jumper . Or alternatively the hang timer can first send the instructions to a receiving station and that station can relay the instructions to the camera . The camera can then broadcast the recorded data to some viewing location as discussed with respect to for instance viewing location .

Interestingly another hang timer may also instruct the camera when to record. In case there may be a conflict of instructions between any two or more hang timers and an algorithm can be used where instructions are prioritized. For example the hang timer attached to the jumper can have priority in terms of instructing the ground based camera when to record or vice versa. Alternatively if one hang timer is already instructing a camera another hang timer can instruct a different camera . Those of skill in the art will appreciated the numerous different combinations and relationships that can exist between hang timers and cameras.

Just as the hang timer can be attached anywhere so can the camera . In the camera is attached to a helmet . However in addition to being helmet based as indicated above it can also be ground based ramp based snowboard based and so on. The camera attaching mechanism can be universal and adaptable to attach the camera just about anywhere it can communicate with any given hang timer such as the hang timer depicted in .

Conversely at block the hang timer or more precisely a modular software component of the hang timer can be placed internally in a recording device . In other words the capability of the hang timer to measure hang time can be used inside a recording device and hence this capability can be used to control the recording events by the recording device such as the camera illustrated in . Alternatively the hang timer as a hang time event measuring module may be contained in a component that interfaces with the recording device this component not pictured can directly interface with the recording device such as being directly plugged in with the recording device or it may interface indirectly with the recording device as discussed with reference to . In any case at block an application programming interface may be used whether contained in the recording device or contained in an auxiliary component interfacing with the recording device in order to facilitate communication between the hang timer and the recording device .

At step the hang timer can determine recording instructions for a recording device so that the recording device can start recording the hang timer event. The recording instructions may be determined in response to some relevant change in the acceleration profile of a hang timer wearer. For example one such relevant change may be a change in static acceleration of about 1 g or so from say about 1 g to about 0 g.

Concurrently to step in step the hang timer can issue instruction to other listening recording devices. These other recording device may also record the hang time event. Moreover the instruction provided by the hang timer may be either the same as instruction provided to the recording device at step or they may be different and specifically tailored for the additional recording device at step .

At step subject to another relevant event such as a change in static acceleration from about 0 g to about 1 g the hang timer can provide instructions to stop recording by the recording device. Moreover such instructions at step can also be provided to the additional recording device.

Interestingly enough the hang timer can either send out a separate start recording instructions and a separate stop recording instructions or it may send them together at the same time. In this latter case since the hang timer knows that hang time events typically don t last more than say ten seconds it can upon a change in the acceleration profile send out one set of start and stop recording instructions. Such instructions may instruct a recording device to start recording at time t 0 and to stop recording at t 10 which may be ten seconds after it started recording. Various other combinations of starting to record and stopping to record instructions will be readily appreciated by those skilled in the art.

Lastly step loops back to step since the hang timer can measure multiple hang time events. The hang timer can send out recording instructions as long as it is programmed to do so by a hang timer user. Alternatively the hang timer can be programmed to send out instructions only for a selected subset of hang time events however that subset is determined whether by sequence by greatest hang time etc.

It should be noted that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and devices of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium where when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the subject matter.

In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may generally include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may utilize the creation and or implementation of domain specific programming models aspects of the present invention e.g. through the use of a data processing API or the like are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Lastly while the present disclosure has been described in connection with the preferred aspects as illustrated in the various figures it is understood that other similar aspects may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described aspects for performing the same function of the present disclosure without deviating therefrom. For example in various aspects of the disclosure a hang timer was disclosed that can issue instructions to recording devices or modules. However other equivalent mechanisms to these described aspects are also contemplated by the teachings herein. Therefore the present disclosure should not be limited to any single aspect but rather construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

