---

title: Apparatus and methods for providing enhanced mobile messaging services
abstract: Various embodiments for providing enhanced mobile messaging services are described. In one or more embodiments, a mobile computing device may send and receive messages of different types. The wireless computing device may comprise a threading engine to determine a sender of a received message and/or a recipient of a sent message. The threading engine may be arranged to correlate received messages of different message types with a particular sender and sent messages of different types with a particular recipient. The wireless device may display a messaging thread comprising correlated messages of different message types in a messaging user interface supported by a messaging application. The different message types correlated within the message thread are not limited to a message type associated with the messaging application. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08233885&OS=08233885&RS=08233885
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08233885
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061219
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 825 044 filed on Sep. 8 2006 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 200 502 filed on Aug. 8 2005 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 759 597 filed on Jan. 15 2004. These applications are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

A mobile computing device such as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone or smart phone generally may provide voice and data communications functionality as well as computing and processing capabilities. In addition to supporting telephone and voicemail services a mobile computing device may support various other types of mobile messaging services such as facsimile e mail instant messaging IM short message service SMS messaging multimedia message service MMS messaging video conferencing and so forth. Accordingly there may be a need for an improved apparatus and methods for providing enhanced mobile messaging services.

Various embodiments are directed to providing enhanced mobile messaging services. In one or more embodiments a mobile computing device may send and receive messages of different types. The wireless computing device may comprise a threading engine to determine a sender of a received message and or a recipient of a sent message. The threading engine may be arranged to correlate received messages of different message types with a particular sender and sent messages of different types with a particular recipient. The wireless device may display a messaging thread comprising correlated messages of different message types in a messaging user interface supported by a messaging application. The different message types correlated within the message thread are not limited to a message type associated with the messaging application.

The mobile computing device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality the mobile computing device may be arranged to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. Examples of wireless network systems may include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electro magnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

As shown in the embodiment of the mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . In various implementations the host processor and the radio processor may be arranged to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines audio lines and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although some embodiments may be described as comprising a dual processor architecture for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that the mobile computing device may comprise any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors consistent with the described embodiments.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the host processor implemented as a CPU or general purpose processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communication for a cellular radiotelephone system such as a GSM UMTS and or CDMA system. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to perform data communications in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols such as WWAN protocols e.g. GSM GPRS protocols CDMA 1xRTT protocols EDGE protocols EV DO protocols EV DV protocols HSDPA protocols etc. WLAN protocols e.g. IEEE 802.11a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 etc. PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth. In some embodiments the transceiver module may comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and application programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device .

System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include without limitation an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. The mobile computing device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. Examples of application programs may include without limitation one or more messaging applications e.g. telephone voicemail facsimile e mail IM SMS MMS video conferencing a web browser application personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

As shown in the mobile computing device may comprise or implement several messaging applications arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Each of the messaging applications may be representative of a particular kind of transport enabling handling of messages of particular types and formats for the particular application. The messaging applications may comprise for example a telephone application such as a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application and so forth. The messaging applications may further comprise a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an e mail application an SMS application and an MMS application . It is to be understood that the embodiments are not limited in this regard and that the messaging applications may include any other type of messaging or communications application which is consistent with the described embodiments. It also is to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in addition to messaging applications which are consistent with the described embodiments.

The mobile computing device may comprise a message content database . The message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects of messages sent and received by the messaging applications . The message content database may be implemented in the memory of the mobile computing device for example.

The mobile computing device also may comprise a contacts database . The contacts database may be arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . The contact record for an individual may comprise identifying information such as first name last name company employer name mailing addresses e.g. home work other telephone numbers e.g. home work mobile fax pager e mail address e.g. home work primary alternative IM screen names SMS identifier MMS identifier personal information notes and so forth.

The contacts database may be used or accessed when receiving and or sending messages. In various embodiments identifying information e.g. telephone number e mail address IM screen name SMS identifier MMS identifier etc. included in messages received by the messaging applications may be compared against the contacts database to identify the sender of a message. The contacts database also may be used or accessed when composing and or sending messages. For example the user of the mobile computing device may search for and open the contact record of a particular individual to initiate communication. In addition contact records in the contacts database may be filtered and matched against text typed by a user in one or more messaging applications to facilitate message addressing.

The mobile computing device may comprise a message log . The message log may be arranged to track various types of messages which are sent and received by the mobile computing device. Entries in the message log may reflect recently made or attempted communications. In various implementations the entries in the message log may be accessed by the user for replying to a missed message and or for reinitiating or reattempting communication with a particular individual.

As shown in the mobile computing device may comprise or implement a threading engine coupled to the messaging applications . In various embodiments the threading engine may be arranged to access to and communicate with one or more of the message content database the contacts database and the message log . The threading engine may comprise for example hardware and or software such as threading logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. host processor . The threading logic may be stored internally or externally to the logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media. In various implementations the threading engine may communicate with a threading rules database arranged to store rules and parameters for controlling the performance of threading operations for different types of messages.

In various embodiments the threading engine may be arranged to generate a message thread associated with a particular sender or recipient for different message types and or formats. The threading engine may be arranged for example to determine the sender of an incoming or received message as well as to determine the recipient of an outgoing or sent message. The sender or the recipient may be determined by the threading engine using various types of identifying information associated with a particular message such as a telephone number e mail address IM screen name SMS identifier MMS identifier and so forth.

In various implementations the threading engine may match identifying information associated with an incoming or outgoing message against contact records stored in the contacts database . In such implementations messages of different types may be correlated and threaded together for a particular known contact. For example a contact record may comprise a name telephone number e mail address and an IM screen name for a known contact. In this case identifying information associated with several different types of messages such as telephone messages voicemail messages fax messages SMS messages MMS messages e mail messages and IM messages all may be matched against the contact record to correlate and thread together messages for the known contact.

It can be appreciated that in some cases the threading engine may be able to correlate and thread different types of messages together without using the contact records of the contacts database . For example the threading engine may use a telephone number to correlate and thread together different types of messages such as telephone messages voicemail messages fax messages SMS messages and MMS messages.

In some cases threading may be performed for all incoming and outgoing messages. In other cases threading may be performed for only selected contacts. It can be appreciated that threading may be performed for a selected individual contact as well as a selected group of contacts such as family members or employees of a particular organization.

Once the threading engine has correlated messages with a particular sender or recipient the mobile computing device may display a message thread comprising correlated messages of various types and formats. The message thread may be displayed to the user of the mobile computing device through a messaging UI for example. In various embodiments the messaging UI used to display the message thread generally may be supported by a particular messaging application such as one of the messaging applications e.g. telephone application voicemail application facsimile application video teleconferencing application IM application e mail application SMS application or MMS application . In such embodiments however the types of messages correlated within the message thread are not limited to the particular type s of messages generally associated with the supporting messaging application.

In one embodiment for example a messaging UI supported by the SMS application may be used to display a message thread. In this embodiment the messaging UI supported by the SMS messaging application may display a message thread comprising SMS messages MMS messages as well as telephone messages voicemail messages fax messages video conferencing messages IM messages and e mail messages. The embodiments however are not limited to this example.

As shown the messaging UI may comprise a title bar for displaying the title of a particular messaging application and the current time. The messaging UI also may comprise a folder bar including a drop menu button to select among various folders supported by the messaging application. Exemplary folders may include without limitation an Inbox folder an Outbox folder a Sent Items folder a Drafts folder a Saved folder a Templates folder and so forth. As shown the Inbox folder is displayed in the messaging UI . The folder bar may comprise a message count indicating the number of messages in the folder along with the number of unread items.

In various embodiments the messaging UI may be arranged to display a message list comprising details for various message items. The messaging UI may comprise a scroll bar if necessary to scroll through the message items in the message list . The message items in the message list generally may be sorted in various ways such as by time of receipt by sender name by message type and so forth. As shown the message items displayed in the message list are sorted by time of receipt.

In this embodiment each of the message items in the message list may comprise a two line message description which is bold if unread and plan if read. As shown each of the message items may display sender information as well as time date information in the first line. In some cases the sender information may be truncated to ensure the display of the date time information. If the date stamp of a sent received message is the current day then the time may be displayed. If the date stamp of a sent received message is earlier than the current day then the date may be displayed in short system format e.g. MM DD .

Examples of sender information may comprise a contact name if matched through a reverse look up in the contact records caller ID telephone number e mail address IM screen name SMS identifier MMS identifier and so forth. In various implementations the sender information may be hyperlinked whether there is a contact match or not to allow for allowing the user to reply to the message item and or to add the sender to contacts. In some embodiments the user may type partial or complete sender information into a text box for filtering the items of the message list by sender and or to display in the message list only those messages associated with a particular sender.

If the message item includes a subject line in the header the second line of the message description may display the text of the subject line. Otherwise the second line of the message description may display text from within the message. The message item may display as much of the content of the message as will fit in one line. In some cases carriage returns may be stripped out so that more message text may be displayed.

In various embodiments each of the message items in the message list may display an icon indicating message type and current message status. Exemplary icons may include without limitation a message thread a read message an unread message a missed message a sent message a received message e.g. full receipt partial receipt a priority message e.g. high normal low a sending error message and so forth.

As shown in the message list of the messaging UI may be arranged to display message items of various types and formats. In this embodiment the message list includes a message item comprising a message thread. The message item may be arranged to display the last sent or received message from the message thread. In this example the message item is displaying the last sent message e.g. SMS message of a message thread associated with a contact e.g. John Doe . The message item displays the identified sender e.g. John Doe the time of receipt e.g. 9 31 a.m. text from the SMS message and a chat bubble icon. In various implementations the chat bubble icon may be used to indicate a message thread. It can be appreciated that any suitable icon may be used to indicate a message thread.

The message list includes a message item comprising a high priority unread e mail message that displays the identified sender e.g. Joe Brown the time of receipt e.g. 9 31 a.m. the subject of the e mail message and an unread e mail icon. The message list includes a message item comprising a missed telephone call that displays the identified sender e.g. Jane Smith the time of receipt e.g. 9 15 a.m. and a telephone icon. The message list includes a message item comprising a high priority read SMS message that displays the identified sender e.g. Bill Jones the date of receipt e.g. September 2007 the subject of the SMS message and a high priority read SMS icon.

The message list also includes a message item comprising an unread SMS message that displays the identified sender e.g. Dave the date of receipt e.g. September 2006 text from the SMS message and an unread SMS icon. In this embodiment the background of the message item may be grayed out or shaded to indicate the aging or relevance of the unread SMS icon. In various implementations the user may configure message preferences for changing the appearance of messages based on when the message was received. For example the appearance of messages which are older than a certain number of hours or days may appear differently from recent message so that the user may avoid responding to a message which is no longer relevant. It can be appreciated that different aging or relevance preferences may be set and different appearance changes may be used for different types of messages. In some embodiments the content of a message may be parsed to identify certain words e.g. lunch and the appearance of the message may be changed after a certain time e.g. 2 00 p.m. . In some embodiments the appearance of a message from a particular individual may be changed in the event that a message is sent subsequently to the individual. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various implementations the messaging UI may be presented to a user by selecting a message thread from a message list. For example the messaging UI may be presented to a user when the message item is selected. It can be appreciated however that the embodiments are not limited in this context and that the user may navigate to various embodiments of the UI in a variety of ways such as from a contact record of the sender an alert message or other messaging UI.

As shown the messaging UI may comprise a title bar for displaying a particular contact e.g. sender recipient and the current time. In various embodiments the messaging UI may be arranged to display a message thread comprising various message items. The messaging UI may comprise a scroll bar if necessary to scroll through the messages in the message thread . The messages in the message thread generally may be sorted in various ways. As shown the messages displayed in the message thread are sorted by time of receipt.

The messaging UI may comprise a message composition area for entering message text and a status bar . As shown the status bar may comprise a text button for displaying a pop up list of boilerplate text strings that can be inserted into messages and edited. The status bar may comprise an emoticon button to display a pop up of emoticons that can be inserted into the text area. The status bar may comprise a character counter to display the total number of characters in the current message and a message counter to displays the current number of messages.

In various embodiments the messaging UI may comprise a hyperlink to retrieve archived messages. In one embodiment for example the messaging UI may be arranged to show a maximum number e.g. 50 of recent messages exchanged between the user and the contact. By clicking on the hyperlink the user may view all the previous messages. In general providing the hyperlink to archived messages may improve the rendering time of the messaging UI and allow the user to launch the messaging UI immediately as well as retaining access to numerous and or old messages. In some cases the user may run a purge command to delete messages.

As shown in the message thread may be arranged to display messages of various types and formats. In this embodiment the message thread includes a message comprising a telephone call that displays linked telephone number information of the contact and the date of receipt e.g. Thu Sep. 8 2006 11 30 p.m. . The message thread includes a message comprising a received and read e mail message with an attachment that displays linked e mail address information of the contact the subject of the e mail message and the date of receipt e.g. Fri Sep. 9 2006 1 15 a.m. . The message thread includes a message comprising a sent IM message that displays linked IM screen name information of the contact the text of the IM message and the date sent e.g. Fri Sep. 9 2006 1 20 a.m. . In some embodiments an IM icon associated with the message may indicate whether the contact is currently online and available to receive an IM message.

The message thread includes a message comprising a received and read SMS message that displays the date of receipt e.g. Sep. 9 2006 9 31 a.m. and the text of the SMS message. The message thread includes a message comprising a sent SMS message that displays the date sent e.g. Sep. 9 2006 9 32 a.m. and the text of the SMS message.

In this embodiment the messaging UI may be supported by an SMS messaging application. In this embodiment however the types of messages correlated within the message thread are not limited to the particular type s of messages generally associated with the supporting SMS messaging application. It can be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context and that other embodiments may be implemented using various types of messages as well as various types of supporting messaging applications.

In various embodiments the logic flow may comprise determining the sender of a received message and or the recipient of a sent message block . The sender or the recipient may be determined using various types of identifying information associated with a particular message such as a telephone number e mail address IM screen name SMS identifier MMS identifier and so forth.

The logic flow may comprise correlating different message types with a particular sender or recipient block . In some embodiments correlating may comprise matching identifying information associated with an incoming or outgoing message against stored contact records. In such embodiments messages of different types may be correlated and threaded together for a particular known contact. For example a stored contact record may comprise a name telephone number e mail address and an IM screen name for a known contact. In this case identifying information associated with several different types of messages such as telephone messages voicemail messages fax messages SMS messages MMS messages e mail messages and IM messages all may be matched against the contact record to correlate and thread together messages for the known contact.

In some embodiments correlating may be accomplished without using stored contact records. For example a telephone number may be used to correlate and thread together different types of messages such as telephone messages voicemail messages fax messages SMS messages and MMS messages.

The logic flow may comprise generating a message thread associated with a particular sender or recipient for different message types block . In some embodiments threading may be performed for all incoming and outgoing messages. In other cases threading may be performed for only selected contacts. It can be appreciated that threading may be performed for a selected individual contact as well as a selected group of contacts such as family members or employees of a particular organization.

The logic flow may comprise displaying a message thread comprising correlated messages of different message types block . The message thread may be displayed to the user of a mobile computing device through a messaging UI for example. The messaging UI used to display the message thread generally may be supported by a particular messaging application such as a telephone application voicemail application facsimile application video teleconferencing application IM application e mail application SMS application or MMS application. The types of messages correlated within the message thread however are not limited to the particular type s of messages generally associated with the supporting messaging application.

As shown the messaging UI may comprise a title bar for displaying the title of a particular messaging application and the current time. The messaging UI also may comprise an address bar . As shown the address bar may comprise a To field which may display the contact name e.g. John Doe through reverse look up in the contact records or the telephone number of the recipient. In some cases the address bar may comprise other items such as a CC field a BCC field a subject field contact picture status line e.g. message priority receipt status errors receipt request validity period callback number vCard vCal and so forth.

The messaging UI may comprise a message composition area for entering message text. The messaging UI may be arranged to display a menu in response to pressing a menu button or by tapping and holding the screen for example. Exemplary items or soft keys for the menu may include without limitation Send Add Recipient Insert My Text Emoticons Add Media Add Picture Add Video Add Sound Pick Sound Record Sound Add Callback Number Add vCard Add vCal Clear Select All Paste Copy Cut Undo Save to Drafts Save as Template Spell Check Check Names Cancel Message Message Options and so forth.

The messaging UI may comprise a status bar . As shown the status bar may comprise a text button for displaying a pop up list of boilerplate text strings that can be inserted into messages and edited. The status bar may comprise an emoticon button to display a pop up of emoticons that can be inserted into the text area.

In various embodiments the messaging UI may allow the user to add media objects such as pictures video and or sounds to a message. In some embodiments for example the message composition area may comprise one or more add media button and or an add media soft key. For example the message composition area may comprise an add media button the status bar may comprise an add media button and or the menu may comprise an Add Media soft key . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

When the user selects to add media the user may be presented with a picture video recorder picker and or a sound recorder or picker. In some cases the user may be presented with an intermittent dialog warning the user about the fact that the messaging service might charge more for delivering media objects.

In various embodiments the messaging UI may enable a user to compose messages of different types of formats using the same unified messaging UI. In one embodiment for example the messaging UI may comprise a unified messaging UI for SMS messages and MMS messages. In such an embodiment after a media object has been added to the message the messaging UI may undergo an automatic or seamless conversion for supporting the transmission of the media objects. For example the messaging UI may automatically or seamless convert from an SMS messaging UI to an MMS messaging UI and the message will be sent as an MMS message. In the event that the user adds a media object and then removes the media object the messaging UI may automatically or seamless convert back from an MMS messaging UI to an SMS messaging UI. If the user does not add any media to the message conversion does not take place and the message may be sent as an SMS message. The embodiments however are not limited to this example.

In this embodiment the messaging UI may comprise a unified messaging UI supporting composition of SMS messages and MMS messages. It can be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context and that the unified messaging UI may be implemented to support using various types of messages as well as various types of supporting messaging applications. In some implementations for example the message options soft key may enable the user to select among various types of message conversions and or delivery methods for sending a composed message. In such implementations the user may compose a message in one format e.g. SMS and then convert or send the message in another format e.g. MMS e mail IM etc. In some cases the conversion of a message from one format to a particular sending format may be based on programmed and or detected preferences constraints and or availability of a recipient to receive messages of a certain format. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As shown in the menu may comprise icons associated with certain menu items or soft keys. In this embodiment for example the menu comprises a talk button icon associated with and displayed next to the Call Sender soft key. The menu also comprises an ok button icon associated with and displayed next to the Cancel Message soft key. In such an embodiment the mobile computing device may comprise a talk hardware button and an ok hardware button.

In various embodiments while in compose mode the user may call the sender by selecting the Call Sender menu item in the menu of the messaging UI and or by pressing the talk hardware button on the keypad . Likewise the user may cancel a message by selecting the Cancel Message menu item in the menu of the messaging UI and or by pressing the ok hardware button on the keypad . Accordingly in such embodiments the talk button icon and the ok button icon may serve to educate the user as to alternative easier and or quicker ways to perform various messaging operations. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Numerous specific details have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details are representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design and or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation.

It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising exemplary functional components or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate exemplary implementations and that the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It is worthy to note that some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

Some of the figures may include a flow diagram. Although such figures may include a particular logic flow it can be appreciated that the logic flow merely provides an exemplary implementation of the general functionality. Further the logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

