---

title: Methods of humanizing immunoglobulin variable regions through rational modification of complementarity determining residues
abstract: The present invention is based, at least in part, on the discovery that strategic modifications of non-human donor antibody CDR residue(s) can be used to humanize antibodies. Such modifications modulate the 3D structural fit between donor antibody CDRs and human acceptor antibody framework regions that comprise the variable domains of a CDR-grafted antibody. Whereas prior art methods of humanization have relied on making framework substitutions (in which selected human framework residues are backmutated to the corresponding amino acid residue present in the non-human donor antibody), the instant invention is based, at least in part, on a method of humanizing antibodies in which selected CDR residues, and optionally adjacent FR residues, are changed in order to accommodate differences in FR amino acid sequences between donor and acceptor antibodies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07678371&OS=07678371&RS=07678371
owner: Biogen Idec MA Inc.
number: 07678371
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060306
---
The application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 658 987 filed on Mar. 4 2005 the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The contents of any patents patent applications and references cited throughout this specification are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Antibodies are naturally occurring biological agents that play a critical role in defending the body from pathogens. Antibodies which are also commonly referred to as immunoglobulins contain four polypeptides two longer polypeptides heavy chains that are identical to one another and two shorter polypeptides light chains that are identical to one another. The heavy chains are paired with the light chains by disulfide bonds and the two heavy chains are similarly bound to one another to create a tetrameric structure. Moreover the heavy and light chains each contain a variable domain and one or more constant regions the heavy chain includes one variable domain V followed by three constant regions C1 C2 and C3 and the light chain includes one variable domain V followed by a single constant region C .

The variable domains of each pair of light and heavy chains form the site that comes into contact with an antigen. Both Vand Vhave the same general structure with four framework regions FRs whose sequences are relatively conserved connected by three hypervariable or complementarity determining regions CDRs see Kabat et al. In Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 1983 see also Chothia et al. 196 901 917 1987 . The four framework regions largely adopt a sheet conformation and the CDRs form loops connecting and in some cases forming part of the sheet structure. The CDRs of Vand Vare held in close proximity by the FRs and amino acid residues within the CDRs bind the antigen. More detailed accounts of the structure of variable domains can be found in Poljak et al. 70 3305 3310 1973 Segal et al. 71 4298 4302 1974 and Marquart et al. 141 369 391 1980 .

Researchers have modified antibodies in various ways in order to study their function or to improve their utility as therapeutic agents. In some of the earliest modifications researchers used double stranded DNA sequences to express the Vor Vdomains but none of the sequence of the constant region see e.g. EP A 0 088 994 Schering Corporation . Other fragments and chimeric antibodies have also been made. One particular type of chimera commonly referred to as a CDR grafted antibody includes sequences from two antibodies that differ in species of origin e.g. murine CDRs have been used in place of the naturally occurring CDRs in otherwise human antibodies see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 539 . Researchers hoped that such antibodies would be no more foreign to the human body than a fully human antibody However the utility of such antibodies has been restricted at least in some cases by a reduction in the antibody s affinity for the antigen. In an attempt to improve affinity some of the amino acids in the FRs of CDR grafted antibodies have been changed from those of the acceptor molecule e.g. a human antibody to those of the antibody that donated the CDRs e.g. those of a murine antibody see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 585 089 U.S. Pat. No. 5 693 761 U.S. Pat. No. 5 693 762 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 180 370 . However such modifications often result in molecules with increased immunogenicity. There remains a need for antibodies and other binding molecules that do not provoke a strong immune response yet bind strongly to antigen and methods for making such binding molecules.

The present invention is based at least in part on the discovery that strategic modifications of non human donor antibody amino acids eg. CDR residue s and or adjacent FR residues can be used to humanize antibodies. Such modifications modulate the 3D structural fit between donor antibody CDRs and human acceptor antibody framework regions that comprise the variable domains of a CDR grafted antibody. Whereas prior art methods of humanization have relied on making framework substitutions in which selected human framework residues are backmutated to the corresponding amino acid residue present in the non human donor antibody the instant invention is based at least in part on a novel method of humanizing antibodies in which selected variable region residues e.g. CDR residues and optionally adjacent FR residues are changed in order to accommodate differences in FR amino acid sequences between donor and acceptor antibodies. By focusing on making changes to the CDR region of an immunoglobulin variable region rather than the FR region an immune response by a subject to a polypeptide comprising such variable regions can be minimized. In one embodiment such modifications result in humanized antibodies that comprise fully human FR regions and have reduced immunogenicity compared to unmodified CDR.

In one aspect the invention pertains to a method of humanizing an immunoglobulin Ig variable region which comprises a variable region framework FR amino acid residues from an acceptor Ig variable region having acceptor variable region CDR and FR amino acid residues and b complementarity determining regions CDRs from a non human donor Ig variable region having donor variable region CDR and FR amino acid residues the method comprising i providing data which allows prediction of the conformation of at least one CDR ii identifying which FR amino acid residues are predicted to affect the 3 D conformation of the at least one CDR iii identifying at least one candidate donor CDR amino acid residue for substitution with an elected amino acid residue wherein the elected amino acid residue conformationally accommodates an amino acid residue difference between the donor and acceptor in the FR without affecting the CDR conformation and iv substituting the at least one candidate donor CDR amino acid residue with the elected amino acid residue to form a humanized Ig variable region.

In one embodiment step iii further comprises identifying at least one candidate acceptor FR amino acid residue for substitution with a second elected amino acid residue wherein the second elected amino acid residue conformationally accommodates a FR amino acid residue difference between the donor Ig variable region and the acceptor Ig variable region without affecting the CDR conformation. In another embodiment step iv further comprises substituting the at least one candidate acceptor FR residue with the second elected amino acid residue.

In one embodiment step i comprises evaluating a 3 dimensional 3D structure of the non human donor Ig variable region.

In another embodiment step i comprises evaluating x ray diffraction data of the non human donor Ig variable region.

In another embodiment step i comprises evaluating a computer generated model of the non human donor Ig variable region.

In certain embodiments the acceptor Ig variable region is derived from a human antibody. In one embodiment the acceptor Ig variable region is derived from a human consensus sequence. In another embodiment the acceptor Ig variable region is derived from a human germline sequence.

In another aspect the invention pertains to a method of designing a humanized Ig variable region which comprises a variable framework regions FRs from an acceptor Ig variable region and b complementarity determining regions CDRs from a non human donor Ig variable region the method comprising 

 a identifying framework region FR amino acids which differ between the acceptor Ig variable region and the donor Ig variable region 

 c identifying at least one candidate amino acid from the amino acids identified in step b for substitution with an elected amino acid residue which conformationally accommodates the FR amino acid s identified in step a .

In certain embodiments the method further comprises substituting the elected amino acid residue at the candidate amino acid position.

In one embodiment the FR amino acid identified in step a is a canonical FR residue. In another embodiment the amino acid identified in step b is immediately adjacent to the FR amino acid identified in step a . In another embodiment the amino acid identified in step b is within about 4 of 3 D space from the FR amino acid identified in step a .

In one embodiment the elected amino acid residue is identified by side chain repacking. In another embodiment the elected amino acid residue is selected from all possible rotamers of all possible amino acids. In another embodiment the elected amino acid residue is selected from a subset of all possible rotamers of all possible amino acids.

In another embodiment the elected amino acid residue is identified as an amino acid that is most commonly present at the position of the candidate amino acid within a set of homologous antibody variable region sequences having the same FR amino acid as the FR amino acid identified in step a .

In another embodiment the elected amino acid residue is selected from a subset of all possible rotamers of all possible amino acids wherein the subset comprises all possible rotamers of amino acids that are commonly present at the position of the candidate amino acid within a set of homologous antibody variable region sequences having the same FR amino acid as the FR amino identified in step a .

In another aspect the invention pertains to a method of designing a humanized Ig variable region the method comprising a selecting a non human donor Ig variable region comprising donor variable region CDR and FR amino acid residues b selecting an acceptor Ig variable region comprising acceptor variable region CDR and FR amino acid residues c identifying at least one candidate amino acid residue in at least one CDR of the donor Ig variable region for substitution with an elected amino acid residue where i the candidate amino acid is immediately adjacent to an amino acid of the acceptor FR region or ii the candidate amino acid is predicted to have a side chain atom whose Van der Waals surface is within about 4 of an acceptor variable region FR amino acid residue in a 3D immunoglobulin model and is predicted to interact with at least one variable region FR amino acid residue of the humanized Ig chain.

In one embodiment the method further comprises identifying at least one candidate FR amino acid residue in the acceptor Ig variable region for substitution with a second elected amino acid residue wherein 

 i the candidate FR amino acid residue is immediately adjacent to a CDR amino acid residue of the donor Ig variable region or

 ii the candidate FR amino acid residue is predicted to have a side chain atom whose Van der Waals surface is within about 4 of a CDR amino acid residue of the donor Ig variable region in a 3D immunoglobulin model and is predicted to interact with at least one variable region CDR amino acid residue of the humanized Ig chain.

In one embodiment the method further comprises substituting the elected amino acid residue s at the candidate amino acid residue position. In another embodiment the method further comprises substituting the second elected amino acid residue s at the candidate FR amino acid residue position.

In another embodiment the Ig variable region is present in an intact antibody molecule. In another embodiment the Ig variable region is present in a fragment of an antibody molecule.

In one embodiment the Ig variable region is present in a molecule selected from the group consisting of an antibody an antibody light chain VL an antibody heavy chain VH a single chain antibody scFv a F ab 2 fragment a Fab fragment an Fd fragment and a single domain fragment.

In another embodiment the Ig variable region is a light chain variable region. In another embodiment the Ig chain is a heavy chain variable region.

In yet another embodiment the humanized Ig chain comprises at least one variable region FR amino acid substitution.

In one embodiment the elected amino acid is from a subset of amino acids having characteristic side chain chemistry said subset of amino acids selected from the group consisting of uncharged polar amino acid residues nonpolar amino acid residues positively charged amino acid residues and negatively charged amino acid residues.

In one embodiment the method is repeated at least one time. In another embodiment in the method is conducted in silico.

In one embodiment the method further comprises expressing a polypeptide comprising the humanized Ig variable region.

In one embodiment the polypeptide is expressed in an expression system selected from the group consisting of an acellular extract expression system a phage display expression system a prokaryotic cell expression system and a eukaryotic cell expression system.

In one embodiment the non human donor antibody is a mouse antibody. In another embodiment the non human donor antibody is a primate antibody.

In one embodiment the invention pertains to a nucleic acid molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence which encodes for a polypeptide comprising the humanized variable region made by the method of the invention.

In another embodiment the invention pertains to a host cell comprising a nucleic acid molecule of the invention.

In yet another embodiment the invention pertains to a polypeptide comprising the humanized Ig variable region produced by the method of the invention.

In one embodiment the invention pertains to a pharmaceutical composition comprising the polypeptide of the invention.

In another embodiment the invention also pertains to a method for treating or preventing a human disorder or disease comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of the pharmaceutical composition of the invention such that therapy or prevention of the human disease or disorder is achieved.

In yet another embodiment the invention pertains to an antibody or binding fragment thereof produced by culturing the host cell of the invention under conditions such that antibody or binding fragment thereof is expressed.

In one embodiment at least one donor antibody CDR is a CDR of an antibody selected from the group consisting of an anti Cripto antibody an anti CD40L antibody an anti VLA4 antibody and an anti MCP antibody.

In another aspect the invention pertains to a humanized Ig light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs 6 13.

In yet another aspect the invention pertains to a humanized Ig light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs 8 9 and 11.

In still another aspect the invention pertains to a humanized Ig heavy chain variable region comprising an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO 22 SEQ ID NO 23 SEQ ID NO 24 and SEQ ID NO 25.

In one embodiment the invention pertains to an antibody or fragment thereof comprising a humanized Ig sequence of the invention.

In another embodiment the invention pertains to a humanized Ig light chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO 11.

In still another aspect the invention pertains to a humanized Ig heavy chain comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 17.

In another aspect the invention pertains to a humanized Ig heavy chain comprising the amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 18.

In yet another aspect the invention pertains to a murine antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof comprising the Ig heavy chain variable region set forth as SEQ ID NO 19.

In one embodiment the invention pertains to a method for treating or preventing a human disorder or disease comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of the pharmaceutical composition of the invention such that therapy or prevention of the human disease or disorder is achieved. In one embodiment the disorder or disease is neoplasia. In another embodiment the disease or disorder is an inflammatory disease or disorder.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims. The contents of any patents patent applications and other references cited in the specification are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention is based on the discovery of novel methods for humanization of immunoglobulin variable regions. As set forth herein strategic modifications of donor antibody variable region amino acid residues e.g. CDR amino acid residue s and or framework amino acid residues can be used to modulate the 3D structural fit between donor antibody CDR and acceptor antibody framework domains that comprise the variable domains of a CDR grafted antibody. The effect of such modifications is to obtain a humanized antibody with low immunogenicity. The invention also pertains to antigen binding molecules made using these novel methods and methods of their use.

As used herein the term immunoglobulin or Ig refers to a protein consisting of one or more polypeptides encoded by or substantially encoded by immunoglobulin genes. The recognized immunoglobulin genes include the kappa lambda alpha gamma delta epsilon and mu constant region genes as well as the myriad immunoglobulin variable region genes. The immunoglobulins may exist in a variety of forms besides antibodies including for example Fv Fab and Fab as well as bifunctional hybrid antibodies e.g. Lanzavecchia et al. 17 105 1987 and in single chains e.g. Huston et al. 85 5879 5883 1988 and Bird et al. 242 423 426 1988 which are incorporated herein by reference . See generally Hood et al. Immunology Benjamin N.Y. 2ed. 1984 and Hunkapiller and Hood 323 15 16 1986 which are incorporated herein by reference . As used herein the term immunoglobulin Ig chain includes at least an Ig variable region which comprises the FR and CDRs and are the amino terminal portion of an Ig chain which confers antigen binding to the molecule and optionally one or more constant regions which control effector function of the chain or antibody comprising the chain. In one embodiment a light chain includes Vand Cdomains and an Ig heavy chain includes V C1 C2 and C3 domains.

 Humanized forms of non human e.g. murine immunoglobulin variable regions are variable regions which comprise an amino acid sequence of a non human antibody which is modified by changing the amino acid sequence to become more human like. Preferably such antibodies contain minimal sequence derived from non human immunoglobulin. The constant regions of non human donor light and heavy chains are usually replaced by constant regions from an acceptor antibody. Using the methods described herein residues from a hyper variable region of the acceptor antibody are replaced by residues from a hypervariable region of a non human donor antibody e.g. derived from a mammal such as a mouse rat rabbit hamster or nonhuman primate having the desired specificity and or affinity. Appropriate CDR amino acid residues may then be modified using rational design as described herein to optimize binding to antigen. In some instances a binding molecule of the invention comprises fully human framework regions. In other embodiment Fv framework region FR residues of the human immunoglobulin may also be replaced by corresponding non human residues or in a preferred embodiment FR residues may be modified using the rational design methods described herein. Preferably any such framework residues that are substituted e.g. backmutated to the non human donor residue are not close to the CDRs and or do not affect CDR conformation. Furthermore humanized antibodies may comprise residues which are not found in the recipient antibody or in the donor antibody. These modifications may be made to further refine antibody performance or expression.

As used herein the term variable region CDR amino acid residues includes amino acids in a CDR or complementarity determining region as identified using sequence or structure based methods. As used herein the term CDR or complementarity determining region is intended to mean the noncontiguous antigen combining sites found within the variable region of both heavy and light chain polypeptides. These particular regions have been described by Kabat et al. J. Biol. Chem. 252 6609 6616 1977 and Kabat et al. Sequences of protein of immunological interest. 1991 and by Chothia et al. J. Mol. Biol. 196 901 917 1987 and by MacCallum et al. J. Mol. Biol. 262 732 745 1996 where the definitions include overlapping or subsets of amino acid residues when compared against each other. The amino acid residues which encompass the CDRs as defined by each of the above cited references are set forth below in Table 1 as a comparison. Preferably the term CDR is a CDR as defined by Kabat based on sequence comparisons.

As used herein the term variable region framework FR amino acid residues or framework residues refers to those amino acids in the framework region of an Ig chain. The term framework region or FR region as used herein includes the amino acid residues that are part of the variable region but are not part of the CDRs e.g. using the Kabat definition of CDRs . Therefore a variable region framework is between about 100 120 amino acids in length but is intended to reference only those amino acids outside of the CDRs. For the specific example of a heavy chain variable region and for the CDRs as defined by Kabat et al. framework region 1 corresponds to the domain of the variable region encompassing amino acids 1 30 region 2 corresponds to the domain of the variable region encompassing amino acids 36 49 region 3 corresponds to the domain of the variable region encompassing amino acids 66 94 and region 4 corresponds to the domain of the variable region from amino acids 103 to the end of the variable region. The framework regions for the light chain are similarly separated by each of the light claim variable region CDRs. Similarly using the definition of CDRs by Chothia et al. or McCallum et al. the framework region boundaries are separated by the respective CDR termini as described above.

As used herein the term data which allows identification of amino acid sequence differences between the donor and acceptor variable region FR amino acid residues includes data e.g. generated based on examination of Ig structure or sequence comparison that informs one of ordinary skill in the art of amino acid residues in the donor antibody that differ from corresponding amino acid residues in the acceptor antibody.

As used herein the term amino acid residues predicted to affect the 3 D conformation of the CDRs includes those amino acid residues in the FR that are likely to affect the structure of the Ig chain backbone to thereby affect CDR 3D structure and or those amino acids which affect the positions of one or more CDR amino acid side chains necessary for antigen binding.

As used herein the term conformationally accommodates includes amino acids which allow for the fit of other amino acids e.g. those amino acids which are sterically complementary electrostatically complementary hydrogen bond donor acceptor complementary or otherwise complementary such that the 3D conformation of CDRs e.g. as determined by preserved antigen binding or by actual observation or modeling of CDR conformation is preserved. As used herein the term CDR conformation refers to the 3D structure of a CDR e.g. the positioning of antigen contacting residues of a CDR loop.

As used herein the term donor or donor Ig variable region sequence is intended to mean an Ig variable region amino acid sequence from which CDRs of a humanized Ig variable region are derived. In general a donor Ig variable region sequence will be derived from an antibody molecule. The donor CDRs confer binding specificity of a donor molecule to an acceptor molecule. It should be understood that a donor Ig region does not have to be from a different species than an acceptor antibody. Instead it is sufficient that the donor is a separate and distinct molecule. In a preferred embodiment a donor antibody is a non human antibody.

As used herein the term acceptor or acceptor Ig variable region sequence is intended to mean an Ig variable region amino acid sequence into which donor CDRs are to be placed. In one embodiment an acceptor antibody is a human antibody. However acceptor Ig variable region sequences do not have to be derived from antibody sequences that exist in nature. In another embodiment an acceptor Ig variable region sequence is derived from human germline sequences. In another embodiment an acceptor Ig variable region sequence may be a consensus sequence based on the most commonly occurring amino acid residue at any position when multiple human sequences are aligned. In yet another embodiment an acceptor Ig variable region sequence may be derived from a human antibody or germline or consensus sequence but may comprise one or more FR amino acid modifications which optimize antibody performance and or expression. Preferably and such FR amino acid modifications are not close to CDRs and or are made to amino acids that do not affect CDR conformation.

As used herein the term adjacent to an amino acid of the acceptor FR region includes variable region amino acids e.g. CDR and or FR amino acids which are near e.g. within 25 Angstroms or less preferably 15 Angstroms or less an amino acid of the acceptor FR region as determined by an evaluation of the structure e.g. primary secondary or tertiary structure of the variable region polypeptide. In certain embodiments an amino acid is adjacent to an amino acid of the acceptor FR region if it is present at an amino acid position that is within 5 or fewer amino acid positions of an acceptor FR amino acid in a variable region sequence e.g. within 4 3 2 or 1 amino acid position . In other embodiments an amino acid is adjacent to an amino acid of the acceptor FR region if it has an atom that is within 25 Angstroms of 3 D space e.g. within 20 preferably 15 more preferably 10 or particular preferably 5 Angstroms of 3 D space in particular within 4 Angstroms of 3 D space from an atom of an amino acid of the acceptor FR region as determined by an evaluation of a 3 dimensional structure of the variable region.

As used herein the term immediately adjacent to an amino acid of the acceptor FR region includes variable region amino acids e.g. CDR amino acids and optionally FR amino acids which are directly next to i.e. which form covalent bonds with FR amino acids in chain of amino acids in a variable region sequence.

As used herein the term side chain atom whose Van der Waals surface is within about 4 of an acceptor variable region FR amino acid residue includes those amino acids which when their Van der Waals surface is projected come within about 4 of an acceptor variable region FR amino acid residue. Van der Waals forces or surfaces for a given atom can be predicted or can be measured using techniques known in the art.

As used herein the term predicted to interact with at least one variable region FR amino acid residue of the humanized Ig chain includes those amino acids which would be predicted based on techniques known to those of skill in the art to interact e.g. via electrostatic interaction Van der Waals forces or hydrophobic interaction with at least one variable region FR amino acid residue of the humanized Ig chain.

As used herein the term 3D structure refers to the known predicted and or modeled position s in three dimensional space that are occupied by the atoms or amino acids e.g. of an Ig variable region. A number of methods for identifying or predicting 3D structure at the molecular atomic level are known in the art including X ray crystallography NMR structural modeling and a variety of predominately in silico approaches to structural prediction determination. Such approaches can incorporate e.g. factors such as the extent of homology of the macro molecule or portion thereof of interest with known and or predicted 3D structures of other macro molecules knowledge of primary and or secondary structural features present in the macro molecule of interest modeling of hydrogen bonding van der Waals forces hydrophobic interactions etc. to generate at least one 3D structural model for the macro molecule or portions thereof of interest. Additionally knowledge of antibody framework domain amino acid residue positions generally important for CDR conformation in antibodies of related sequence constitutes 3D structural information for purposes of the present invention.

As used herein the term in silico includes information regarding molecules e.g. humanized variable regions or polypeptides comprising such humanized variable regions created in a computer memory i.e. on a silicon or other like chip. Stated otherwise in silico means virtual. 

As used herein the term neoplasia includes uncontrolled cell growth including either benign or malignant tumors. As used herein the term malignancy refers to a non benign tumor or a cancer.

As used herein the term cancer includes a malignancy characterized by deregulated or uncontrolled cell growth for instance carcinomas sarcomas leukemias and lymphomas. The term cancer includes primary malignant tumors e.g. those whose cells have not migrated to sites in the subject s body other than the site of the original tumor and secondary malignant tumors e.g. those arising from metastasis the migration of tumor cells to secondary sites that are different from the site of the original tumor . A subject having cancer for example may have a tumor or a white blood cell proliferation such as leukemia. In certain embodiments a subject having cancer is a subject having a tumor such as a solid tumor. Cancers involving a solid tumor include but are not limited to non small cell lung cancer NSCLC testicular cancer lung cancer ovarian cancer uterine cancer cervical cancer pancreatic cancer colorectal cancer CRC breast cancer as well as on prostate gastric skin stomach esophagus and bladder cancer.

The term binding affinity as used herein includes the strength of a binding interaction and therefore includes both the actual binding affinity as well as the apparent binding affinity. The actual binding affinity is a ratio of the association rate over the disassociation rate. Therefore conferring or optimizing binding affinity includes altering either or both of these components to achieve the desired level of binding affinity. The apparent affinity can include for example the avidity of the interaction. For example a bivalent altered variable region binding fragment can exhibit altered or optimized binding affinity due to its valency. Binding affinities may also be modeled with such modeling contributing to selection of residue alterations in the methods of the current invention.

The term antibody as used herein includes monoclonal antibodies including full length monoclonal antibodies polyclonal antibodies multispecific antibodies e.g. bispecific antibodies chimeric antibodies CDR grafted antibodies humanized antibodies or human antibodies.

As used herein the term fragment of an antibody molecule includes antigen binding fragments of antibodies for example an antibody light chain V an antibody heavy chain V a single chain antibody scFv a F ab 2 fragment a Fab fragment an Fd fragment an Fv fragment and a single domain antibody fragment DAb .

The term monoclonal antibody as used herein refers to an antibody obtained from a population of substantially homogeneous antibodies i.e. the individual antibodies comprising the population are identical except for possible naturally occurring mutations that may be present in minor amounts. Monoclonal antibodies are highly specific being directed against a single antigenic site. Furthermore in contrast to conventional polyclonal antibody preparations which typically include different antibodies directed against different determinants epitopes each monoclonal antibody is directed against a single determinant on the antigen. The modifier monoclonal indicates the character of the antibody as being obtained from a substantially homogeneous population of antibodies and is not to be construed as requiring production of the antibody by any particular method. For example the monoclonal antibodies to be used in accordance with the present invention may be made by the hybridoma method first described by Kohler et al. Nature 256 495 1975 or may be made by recombinant DNA methods see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 . The monoclonal antibodies may also be isolated from phage antibody libraries using the techniques described e.g. in Clack son et al. Nature 352 624 628 1991 and Marks et al. J. Mol Biol. 222 581 597 1991 .

The term chimeric immunoglobulin or antibody refers to an immunoglobulin or antibody comprising amino acid sequences derived from different species. Chimeric immunoglobulins or antibodies can be constructed for example by genetic engineering from immunoglobulin gene segments belonging to different species.

The phrase candidate amino acid residue position as used herein includes an amino acid position identified within the CDR or FR domain of an antibody of the present invention wherein the substitution of the candidate amino acid is modeled predicted or known to impact the structural fit between CDR domains and FR domains of an antibody upon alteration deletion insertion or substitution with another amino acid.

The term elected amino acid as used herein refers to an amino acid residue s that has been selected by the methods of the present invention for substitution into a candidate amino acid residue position within the antibody. Substitution of the candidate amino acid residue position with the elected amino acid residue enhances or the structural fit between donor CDR domains and acceptor FR domains of an Ig variable region.

The terms amino acid alteration or alteration for said amino acid as used herein include a change in the amino acid sequence of a predetermined amino acid sequence. Exemplary alterations include insertions substitutions and deletions. The term amino acid substitution as used herein includes the replacement of an existing amino acid residue side chain chemistry in a predetermined amino acid sequence with another different amino acid residue e.g. having different side chain chemistry .

The term naturally occurring amino acid residue as used herein includes one encoded by the genetic code generally selected from the group consisting of alanine Ala arginine Arg asparagine Asn aspartic acid Asp cysteine Cys glutamine Gln glutamic acid Glu glycine Gly histidine His isoleucine Ile leucine Leu lysine Lys methionine Met phenylalanine Phe proline Pro serine Ser threonine Thr tryptophan Trp tyrosine Tyr and valine Val .

The term non naturally occurring amino acid residue as used herein includes an amino acid residue other than those naturally occurring amino acid residues listed above which is able to covalently bind adjacent amino acid residues s in a polypeptide chain. Examples of non naturally occurring amino acid residues include norleucine omithine norvaline homoserine and other amino acid residue analogues such as those described in Ellman et al. 202 301 336 1991 . To generate such non naturally occurring amino acid residues the procedures of Noren et al. 244 182 1989 and Ellman et al. supra can be used. Briefly these procedures involve chemically activating a suppressor tRNA with a non naturally occurring amino acid residue followed by in vitro transcription and translation of the RNA.

The term treatment refers to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures. Those in need of treatment include those already with the disorder as well as those in which the disorder is to be prevented.

The term disorder or disease is any condition that would benefit from treatment with the antibody variant. This includes chronic and acute disorders or diseases including those pathological conditions which predispose the mammal to the disorder in question.

The terms cell cell line cell culture or host cell as used herein includes transformants transformed cells or transfected cells and progeny thereof. Host cells within the scope of the invention include prokaryotic cells such as lower eukaryotic cells such as yeast cells insect cells and higher eukaryotic cells such as vertebrate cells for example mammalian cells e.g. Chinese hamster ovary cells and NSO myeloma cells.

An isolated antibody is one which has been identified and separated and or recovered from a component of its natural environment. Contaminant components of its natural environment are materials which would interfere with diagnostic or therapeutic uses for the antibody and may include enzymes hormones and other proteinaceous or nonproteinaceous solutes. In certain embodiments the antibody will be purified 1 to greater than 95 by weight of antibody as determined by the Lowry method and most preferably more than 99 by weight 2 to a degree sufficient to obtain at least 15 residues of N terminal or internal amino acid sequence by use of a spinning cup sequenator or 3 to homogeneity by SDS PAGE under reducing or nonreducing conditions using Coomassie blue or preferably silver stain. Isolated antibody includes the antibody in situ within recombinant cells since at least one component of the antibody s natural environment will not be present. Ordinarily however isolated antibody will be prepared by at least one purification step.

An isolated nucleic acid molecule is a nucleic acid molecule that is identified and separated from at least one contaminant nucleic acid molecule with which it is ordinarily associated in the natural source of the antibody nucleic acid. An isolated nucleic acid molecule is other than in the form or setting in which it is found in nature. Isolated nucleic acid molecules therefore are distinguished from nucleic acid molecules as they exist in natural cells. However an isolated nucleic acid molecule can include a nucleic acid molecule contained in cells that ordinarily express the nucleic acid molecule where for example the nucleic acid molecule is in a chromosomal location different from that in which it is found in natural cells.

The methods of the invention can be performed on immunoglobulin variable regions whether present in isolated form or in Ig chains antibodies modified forms of antibodies or antigen binding fragments thereof. The subject immunoglobulin variable regions for humanization are chimeric in that they comprise CDR sequences derived from donor antibodies and FR sequences derived from acceptor antibodies. It will be understood that the chimeric molecules for humanization need not be synthesized in order to practice the methods of the invention. For example in one embodiment donor and acceptor Ig variable regions can be identified candidate donor CDR residues for modification can be selected e.g. based on 3D modeling or database selection and the humanized form of the molecule can optionally be synthesized without having produced the donor acceptor or starting chimeric antibody.

Methods for making selecting donor and acceptor Ig variable regions sequences are described in further detail below.

Donor Ig variable region sequences may be derived from antibodies known in the art or antibodies which can be made using any of a number of art recognized protocols. For example donor antibodies can be raised in mammals e.g. non human mammals by multiple subcutaneous or intraperitoneal injections of a relevant antigen e.g. purified tumor associated antigens or cells or cellular extracts comprising such antigens and an adjuvant. This immunization typically elicits an immune response that comprises production of antigen reactive antibodies from activated splenocytes or lymphocytes.

Donor antibodies may be produced in a non human mammal e.g. murine guinea pig primate hamster rabbit or rat by immunizing the animal with the antigen or a fragment thereof. See Harlow Lane supra incorporated by reference for all purposes. While the resulting antibodies may be harvested from the serum of the animal to provide polyclonal preparations it is often desirable to isolate individual lymphocytes from the spleen lymph nodes or peripheral blood to provide homogenous preparations of monoclonal antibodies MAbs . The donor antibodies can be of the IgA IgD IgE IgG or IgM class.

Rabbits or guinea pigs are typically used for making polyclonal antibodies whereas mice are typically used for making monoclonal antibodies. Monoclonal antibodies can be prepared against a fragment by injecting an antigen fragment into a mouse preparing hybridomas and screening the hybridomas for an antibody that specifically binds to the antigen. In this well known process Kohler et al. 1975 256 495 the relatively short lived or mortal lymphocytes from the mouse which has been injected with the antigen are fused with an immortal tumor cell line e.g. a myeloma cell line thus producing hybrid cells or hybridomas which are both immortal and capable of producing the genetically coded antibody of the B cell. The resulting hybrids are segregated into single genetic strains by selection dilution and regrowth with each individual strain comprising specific genes for the formation of a single antibody. Hybridomas produce antibodies which are homogeneous against a desired antigen and in reference to their pure genetic parentage are termed monoclonal. As used herein the term monoclonal refers to antibodies which are homogeneous against a desired antigen regardless of the method by which they were made.

Methods for producing monoclonal antibodies have been known for some time see e.g. Kohler and Milstein 256 495 497 1975 as have techniques for stably introducing immunoglobulin encoding DNA into myeloma cells see e.g. Oi et al. 80 6351 6355 1983 . These techniques which include in vitro mutagenesis and DNA transfection allow the construction of recombinant immunoglobulins and can be used to produce the polypeptide used in the methods of the invention or those that result therefrom e.g. therapeutic and diagnostic antibodies . Production methods vectors and hosts are described further below.

Hybridoma cells thus prepared are seeded and grown in a suitable culture medium that preferably contains one or more substances that inhibit the growth or survival of the unfused parental myeloma cells. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that reagents cell lines and media for the formation selection and growth of hybridomas are commercially available from a number of sources and standardized protocols are well established. Generally culture medium in which the hybridoma cells are growing is assayed for production of monoclonal antibodies against the desired antigen. Preferably the binding specificity of the monoclonal antibodies produced by hybridoma cells is determined by immunoprecipitation or by an in vitro assay such as a radioimmunoassay RIA or enzyme linked immunoabsorbent assay ELISA . After hybridoma cells are identified that produce antibodies of the desired specificity affinity and or activity the clones may be subcloned by limiting dilution procedures and grown by standard methods Goding pp 59 103 Academic Press 1986 . It will further be appreciated that the monoclonal antibodies secreted by the subclones may be separated from culture medium ascites fluid or serum by conventional purification procedures such as for example protein A hydroxylapatite chromatography gel electrophoresis dialysis or affinity chromatography.

Optionally antibodies may be screened for binding to a specific region or desired fragment of the antigen without binding to other nonoverlapping fragments of the antigen. The latter screening can be accomplished by determining binding of an antibody to a collection of deletion mutants of the antigen and determining which deletion mutants bind to the antibody. Binding can be assessed for example by Western blot or ELISA. The smallest fragment to show specific binding to the antibody defines the epitope of the antibody. Alternatively epitope specificity can be determined by a competition assay in which a test and reference antibody compete for binding to the antigen. If the test and reference antibodies compete then they bind to the same epitope or epitopes sufficiently proximal such that binding of one antibody interferes with binding of the other.

In another embodiment DNA encoding the desired monoclonal antibodies may be readily isolated and sequenced using conventional procedures e.g. by using oligonucleotide probes that are capable of binding specifically to genes encoding the heavy and light chains of murine antibodies . The isolated and subcloned hybridoma cells serve as a preferred source of such DNA. Once isolated the DNA may be placed into expression vectors which are then transfected into prokaryotic or eukaryotic host cells such as cells simian COS cells Chinese Hamster Ovary CHO cells or myeloma cells that do not otherwise produce immunoglobulins. More particularly the isolated DNA which may be synthetic as described herein may be used to clone constant and variable region sequences for the manufacture antibodies as described in Newman et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 658 570 filed Jan. 25 1995 which is incorporated by reference herein. Essentially this entails extraction of RNA from the selected cells conversion to cDNA and amplification by PCR using Ig specific primers. Suitable primers for this purpose are also described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 658 570. As will be discussed in more detail below transformed cells expressing the desired antibody may be grown up in relatively large quantities to provide clinical and commercial supplies of the immunoglobulin.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that DNA encoding antibodies or antibody fragments e.g. antigen binding sites may also be derived from antibody phage libraries e.g. using pd phage or Fd phagemid technology. Exemplary methods are set forth for example in EP 368 684 B1 U.S. Pat. No. 5 969 108 Hoogenboom H. R. and Chames. 2000. 21 371 Nagy et al. 2002. 8 801 Huie et al. 2001. 98 2682 Lui et al. 2002. 315 1063 each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Several publications e.g. Marks et al. 10 779 783 1992 have described the production of high affinity human antibodies by chain shuffling as well as combinatorial infection and in vivo recombination as a strategy for constructing large phage libraries. In another embodiment Ribosomal display can be used to replace bacteriophage as the display platform see e.g. Hanes et al. 2000. 18 1287 Wilson et al. 2001. 98 3750 or Irving et al. 2001 248 31. In yet another embodiment cell surface libraries can be screened for antibodies Boder et al. 2000. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97 10701 Daugherty et al. 2000 243 211. Such procedures provide alternatives to traditional hybridoma techniques for the isolation and subsequent cloning of monoclonal antibodies.

Yet another highly efficient means for generating recombinant antibodies is disclosed by Newman 10 1455 1460 1992 . Specifically this technique results in the generation of primatized antibodies that contain monkey variable domains and human constant sequences. This reference is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein. Moreover this technique is also described in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 658 570 5 693 780 and 5 756 096 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

In another embodiment lymphocytes can be selected by micromanipulation and the variable genes isolated. For example peripheral blood mononuclear cells can be isolated from an immunized mammal and cultured for about 7 days in vitro. The cultures can be screened for specific IgGs that meet the screening criteria. Cells from positive wells can be isolated. Individual Ig producing B cells can be isolated by FACS or by identifying them in a complement mediated hemolytic plaque assay. Ig producing B cells can be micromanipulated into a tube and the VH and VL genes can be amplified using e.g. RT PCR. The VH and VL genes can be cloned into an antibody expression vector and transfected into cells e.g. eukaryotic or prokaryotic cells for expression.

Moreover genetic sequences useful for producing the polypeptides of the present invention may be obtained from a number of different sources. For example as discussed extensively above a variety of human antibody genes are available in the form of publicly accessible deposits. Many sequences of antibodies and antibody encoding genes have been published and suitable antibody genes can be chemically synthesized from these sequences using art recognized techniques. Oligonucleotide synthesis techniques compatible with this aspect of the invention are well known to the skilled artisan and may be carried out using any of several commercially available automated synthesizers. In addition DNA sequences encoding several types of heavy and light chains set forth herein can be obtained through the services of commercial DNA synthesis vendors. The genetic material obtained using any of the foregoing methods may then be altered to provide obtain polypeptides of the present invention.

Variable and constant domains can be separately cloned e.g. using the polymerase chain reaction and primers which are selected to amplify the domain of interest. In addition the sequences of many antibody variable and constant domains are known and such domains can be synthesized using methods well known in the art. For example constant region domains can be selected having a particular effector function or lacking a particular effector function or with a particular modification to reduce immunogenicity. Alternatively variable domains can be obtained from libraries of variable gene sequences from an animal of choice. Libraries expressing random combinations of domains e.g. Vand Vdomains can be screened with a desired antigen to identify elements which have desired binding characteristics. Methods of such screening are well known in the art. For example antibody gene repertoires can be cloned into a k bacteriophage expression vector Huse W D et al. 1989 . 2476 1275 . In addition cells Francisco et al. 1994 90 10444 Georgiou et al. 1997 15 29 Boder and Wittrup 1997 15 553 Boder et al. 2000 97 10701 Daugtherty P. et al. 2000 243 211 or viruses e.g. Hoogenboom H R. 1998 4 1 Winter et al. 1994 . 12 433 Griffiths A D. 1998 . 9 102 expressing antibodies on their surface can be screened. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that DNA encoding antibody domains may also be derived from antibody phage libraries e.g. using pd phage or Fd phagemid technology. Exemplary methods are set forth for example in EP 368 684 B1 U.S. Pat. No. 5 969 108 Hoogenboom et al. 2000 21 371 Nagy et al. 2002 8 801 Huie et al. 2001 98 2682 Lui et al. 2002 315 1063 each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Several publications e.g. Marks et al. 1992 10 779 783 have described the production of high affinity antibodies by chain shuffling as well as combinatorial infection and in vivo recombination as a strategy for constructing large phage libraries. In another embodiment ribosomal display can be used to replace bacteriophage as the display platform see e.g. Hanes et al. 1998 95 14130 Hanes and Pluckthun. 1999 243 107 He and Taussig. 1997 25 5132 Hanes et al. 2000 18 1287 Wilson et al. 2001 98 3750 or Irving et al. 2001 248 31 .

Alternatively antibody producing cell lines may be selected and cultured using techniques well known to the skilled artisan. Such techniques are described in a variety of laboratory manuals and primary publications. In this respect techniques suitable for use in the invention as described below are described in Coligan et al. Eds. Green Publishing Associates and Wiley Interscience John Wiley and Sons New York 1991 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety including supplements.

As is well known RNA may be isolated from the original hybridoma cells or from other transformed cells by standard techniques such as guanidinium isothiocyanate extraction and precipitation followed by centrifugation or chromatography. Where desirable mRNA may be isolated from total RNA by standard techniques such as chromatography on oligo dT cellulose. Suitable techniques are familiar in the art.

In one embodiment cDNAs that encode the light and the heavy chains of the antibody may be made either simultaneously or separately using reverse transcriptase and DNA polymerase in accordance with well known methods. PCR may be initiated by consensus constant region primers or by more specific primers based on the published heavy and light chain DNA and amino acid sequences. As discussed above PCR also may be used to isolate DNA clones encoding the antibody light and heavy chains. In this case the libraries may be screened by consensus primers or larger homologous probes such as mouse constant region probes.

DNA typically plasmid DNA may be isolated from the cells using techniques known in the art restriction mapped and sequenced in accordance with standard well known techniques set forth in detail e.g. in the foregoing references relating to recombinant DNA techniques. Of course the DNA may be synthetic according to the present invention at any point during the isolation process or subsequent analysis. In many cases immunoreative antibodies for antigens of interest have been reported in the literature.

Typically donor Ig variable region sequences are selected based on the target antigen to which antibodies comprising the sequences bind. In one embodiment a donor Ig variable region sequence is selected based on its specificity for an antigen targeted for reduction or elimination e.g. from a tissue or from the circulation. In one embodiment a donor Ig variable region sequence is selected based on its specificity for an antigen that can be used to detect the presence of a target molecule e.g. to detect a contaminant or diagnose a condition or disorder . In yet another embodiment a donor Ig variable region sequence is selected based on its specificity for a specific cell type in a subject e.g. a tumor cell or blood clot .

In one embodiment a donor antibody of the present invention may be immunoreactive with one or more tumor associated antigens. For example for treating a cancer or neoplasia an antigen binding domain of a polypeptide preferably binds to a selected tumor associated antigen. Given the number of reported antigens associated with neoplasias and the number of related antibodies those skilled in the art will appreciate that a polypeptide of the invention may be derived from any one of a number of whole antibodies. More generally starting antibodies useful in the present invention may be obtained or derived from any antibody including those previously reported in the literature that reacts with an antigen or marker associated with the selected condition. Further a donor antibody or fragment thereof used to generate the disclosed binding molecules may be murine human chimeric humanized non human primate or primatized. Exemplary tumor associated antigens bound by the donor antibodies used in the invention include for example pan B antigens e.g. CD20 found on the surface of both malignant and non malignant B cells such as those in non Hodgkin s lymphoma and pan T cell antigens e.g. CD2 CD3 CD5 CD6 CD7 . Other exemplary tumor associated antigens comprise but are not limited to MAGE 1 MAGE 3 MUC 1 HPV 16 HPV E6 E7 TAG 72 CEA Lewis L6 Antigen CD19 CD22 CD25 CD30 CD33 CD37 CD44 CD52 CD56 mesothelin PSMA HLA DR EGF Receptor VEGF Receptor and HER2 Receptor.

Previously reported antibodies that react with tumor associated antigens may used as donor antibodies. Exemplary antibodies capable of reacting with tumor associated antigens include 2B8 Lym 1 Lym 2 LL2 Her2 B1 BR96 MB1 BH3 B4 B72.3 5E8 B3F6 5E10 CD33 CanAg CD56 CD44v6 Lewis and CD30.

More specifically exemplary antibodies include but are not limited to 2B8 and C2B8 Zevalin and Rituxan IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corp. San Diego Lym 1 and Lym 2 Techniclone LL2 Immunomedics Corp. New Jersey Trastuzumab Herceptin Genentech Inc. South San Francisco Tositumomab Bexxar Coulter Pharm. San Francisco Alemtzumab Campath Millennium Pharmaceuticals Cambridge Gemtuzumab ozogamicin Mylotarg Wyeth Ayerst Philadelphia Cetuximab Erbitux Imclone Systems New York Bevacizumab Avastin Genentech Inc. South San Francisco BR96 BL22 LMB9 LMB2 MB1 BH3 B4 B72.3 Cytogen Corp. SS1 NeoPharm CC49 National Cancer Institute Cantuzumab mertansine ImmunoGen Cambridge MNL 2704 Milleneum Pharmaceuticals Cambridge Bivatuzumab mertansine Boehringer Ingelheim Germany Trastuzumab DM1 Genentech South San Francisco My9 6 DM1 ImmunoGen Cambridge SGN 10 15 25 and 35 Seattle Genetics Seattle and 5E10 University of Iowa . In preferred embodiments the starting antibodies of the present invention will bind to the same tumor associated antigens as the antibodies enumerated immediately above. In particularly preferred embodiments the polypeptides will be derived from or bind the same antigens as Y2B8 C2B8 CC49 and C5E10.

In a first preferred embodiment the donor antibody will bind to the same tumor associated antigen as Rituxan . Rituxan also known as rituximab IDEC C2B8 and C2B8 was the first FDA approved monoclonal antibody for treatment of human B cell lymphoma see U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 843 439 5 776 456 and 5 736 137 each of which is incorporated herein by reference . Y2B8 90Y labeled 2B8 Zevalin ibritumomab tiuxetan is the murine starting of C2B8. Rituxan is a chimeric anti CD20 monoclonal antibody which is growth inhibitory and reportedly sensitizes certain lymphoma cell lines for apoptosis by chemotherapeutic agents in vitro. The antibody efficiently binds human complement has strong FcR binding and can effectively kill human lymphocytes in vitro via both complement dependent CDC and antibody dependent ADCC mechanisms Reff et al. 83 435 445 1994 . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that dimeric variants homodimers or heterodimers of C2B8 or 2B8 synthetic according to the instant disclosure may be conjugated with effector moieties according to the methods of the invention in order to provide modified antibodies with even more effective in treating patients presenting with CD20 malignancies.

In other preferred embodiments of the present invention the donor antibody will bind to the same tumor associated antigen as CC49. CC49 binds human tumor associated antigen TAG 72 which is associated with the surface of certain tumor cells of human origin specifically the LS174T tumor cell line. LS174T American Type Culture Collection herein ATCC No. CL 188 is a variant of the LS180 ATCC No. CL 187 colon adenocarcinoma line.

It will further be appreciated that numerous murine monoclonal antibodies have been developed which have binding specificity for TAG 72. One of these monoclonal antibodies designated B72.3 is a murine IgG1 produced by hybridoma B72.3 ATCC No. HB 8108 . B72.3 is a first generation monoclonal antibody developed using a human breast carcinoma extract as the immunogen see Colcher et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 78 3199 3203 1981 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 522 918 and 4 612 282 each of which is incorporated herein by reference . Other monoclonal antibodies directed against TAG 72 are designated CC for colon cancer . As described by Schlom et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 512 443 which is incorporated herein by reference CC monoclonal antibodies are a family of second generation murine monoclonal antibodies that were prepared using TAG 72 purified with B72.3. Because of their relatively good binding affinities to TAG 72 the following CC antibodies have been deposited at the ATCC with restricted access having been requested CC49 ATCC No. HB 9459 CC 83 ATCC No. HB 9453 CC46 ATCC No. HB 9458 CC92 ATTCC No. HB 9454 CC30 ATCC No. HB 9457 CC11 ATCC No. 9455 and CC15 ATCC No. HB 9460 . U.S. Pat. No. 5 512 443 further teaches that the disclosed antibodies may be altered into their chimeric form by substituting e.g. human constant regions Fc domains for mouse constant regions by recombinant DNA techniques known in the art. Besides disclosing murine and chimeric anti TAG 72 antibodies Schlom et al. have also produced variants of a humanized CC49 antibody as disclosed in PCT US99 25552 and single chain constructs as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 892 019 each of which is also incorporated herein by reference. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that each of the foregoing antibodies constructs or recombinants and variations thereof may be synthetic and used to provide polypeptides in accordance with the present invention.

In addition to the anti TAG 72 antibodies discussed above various groups have also reported the construction and partial characterization of domain deleted CC49 and B72.3 antibodies e.g. Calvo et al. 8 1 95 109 1993 Slavin Chiorini et al. 53 97 103 1993 and Slavin Chiorini et al. 55 5957 5967 1995 .

In one embodiment a donor antibody of the invention binds to the CD23 U.S. Pat. No. 6 011 138 . In a preferred embodiment a donor antibody of the invention binds to the same epitope as the 5E8 antibody. In another embodiment a donor antibody of the invention comprises at least one CDR from an anti CD23 antibody e.g. the 5E8 antibody.

In another embodiment a donor antibody of the invention binds to the CRIPTO I antigen WO02 088170A2 or WO03 083041A2 . In certain embodiments the antibodies of the invention specifically bind to Cripto. Cripto is a cell surface signaling protein capable of activating several different pathways including a MAP kinase pathway DeSantis et al. 1997 8 1257 66 Kannan et al. 1997 272 3330 35 the TGF pathway Gritsman et al. 1999 127 921 32 Schier et al. 2000 403 385 89 possible interactions with the Wnt pathway Salomon et al. 2000 7 199 226 and cross talk with the EGF pathway Bianco et al. 1999 274 8624 29 .

As used herein Cripto includes the CR 1 Cripto protein the CR 3 Cripto protein and fragments thereof Such fragments may be entire domains such as the extracellular or intracellular domains the EGF like domain the cys rich domain the receptor binding domain and the like. Such fragments may also include contiguous and noncontiguous epitopes in any domain of the Cripto protein.

In specific embodiments the anti Cripto antibody CDRs optimized by the methods of the invention are those of the B3F6.17 anti Cripto antibody ATCC ACCESSION NO. PTA 3319 . Expression and purification of anti Cripto antibodies has been described in detail in PCT US2002 011950 U.S. Pat. No. 5 792616 5 256 643 and US20040146940 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference. In other embodiments a polypeptide of the invention binds to the same epitope as the B3F6 antibody. In still other embodiments a polypeptide of the invention comprises at least one CDR from an anti CRIPTO I antibody e.g. the B3F6 antibody.

In a preferred embodiment a donor antibody employed in the methods of the invention binds to a cell surface adhesion molecule. In certain embodiments the antibodies of the invention specifically bind to an integrin. The integrins are a group of cell extracellular matrix and cell cell adhesion receptors exhibiting an alpha beta heterodimeric structure with a widespread cell distribution and a high degree of conservation throughout evolution. In particular embodiments integrin to which the donor antibody binds is a member of the 1 integrin or VLA family which includes at least six receptors that specifically interact with fibronectin collagen and or laminin.

In particularly preferred embodiments the antibody binds to the VLA 4 integrin 4 1 integrin . VLA 4 is atypical because it is mostly restricted to lymphoid and myeloid cells Hemler et al. 1987 J. Biol. Chem. 2 11478 11485 and indirect evidence had suggested that it might be involved in various cell cell interactions within the immune system Holtzmann et al. 1989 Cell 56 37 46 . In addition VLA 4 has been shown to mediate T and B lymphocyte attachment to the heparin II binding fragment of human plasma fibronectin FN Wayner et al. 1989 J. Cell Biol. 109 1321 1330 .

VLA 4 has been demonstrated to bind to VCAM 1. VCAM 1 like ICAM 1 is a member of the immunoglobulin gene superfamily Osborn et al. 1989 Cell 59 1203 1211 which is expressed on vascular endothelium in response to cytokines and other inflammatory mediators thereby facilitating lymphocyte recruitment to sites of infection and inflammation. VCAM 1 and VLA 4 were demonstrated to be a ligand receptor pair that allows attachment of lymphocytes to activated endothelium by Elices et al. 1990 Cell 60 577 584. Thus VLA 4 represents a singular example of a 1 integrin receptor participating in both cell cell and cell extracellular matrix adhesion functions by means of the defined ligands VCAM 1 and FN. Although VLA 4 is normally restricted to hematopoietic lineages it is found on melanoma cell lines and thus it has been suggested that VCAM1 may participate in metastasis of such tumors Rice et al. 1989 Science 246 1303 1306 .

The apparent involvement of the VCAM1 VLA 4 adhesion pathway in infection inflammation and possibly atherosclerosis has led to continuing intensive research to understand the mechanisms of cell cell adhesion on a molecular level and has led investigators to propose intervention in this adhesion pathway as a treatment for diseases particularly inflammation Osborn et al. 1989 supra . Intervening with the ability of the VLA 4 to bind VCAM 1 using anti VLA 4 antibodies has been shown to be effective method for treating a variety of inflammatory diseases such as for example Inflammatory Bowel Disease and asthma see for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 932 214 and 5 871 734 .

Exemplary monoclonal antibodies to VLA 4 have been described to date fall into several categories based on epitope mapping studies Pulido et al. 1991 J. Biol. Chem. 266 16 10241 10245 . Importantly one particular group of antibodies to epitope B are effective blockers of all VLA 4 dependent adhesive functions Pulido et al. supra . The preparation of such monoclonal antibodies to epitope B of VLA 4 including for example the HP1 2 MAb have been described by Sanchez Madrid et al. 1986 Eur. J. Immunol. 16 1343 1349.

In specific embodiments the anti VLA 4 antibody optimized by the methods of the invention is the murine HP1 2 anti VLA 4 antibody described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 602 503. In another specific embodiment the anti VLA 4 antibody is a murine HP1 2 antibody having a heavy chain comprising the sequence of SEQ ID NO 19 and a light chain comprising the sequence of SEQ ID NO 26. Other anti VLA 4 antibodies useful as donor antibodies in the methods of the invention include HP 2 1 HP 1 3 HP2 4 L25 4B9 and P4C2 which are capable of recognizing the chain of VLA 4. In preferred embodiments the antibody will recognize epitope B of the VLA 4 4 chain see Pulido et al. J. Biol. Chem. 266 16 10241 10245 1991 .

Antibodies having similar specificity and having high binding affinities to VLA 4 comparable to that of HP1 2 would be particularly promising candidates for the preparation of humanized recombinant anti VLA 4 antibodies useful as assay reagents diagnostics and therapeutics.

In one embodiment a polypeptide of the invention comprises at least one CDR from an anti VLA4 antibody e.g. the HP1 2 antibody.

Still other embodiments of the present invention comprise modified antibodies that are derived from or bind to the same tumor associated antigen as C5E10. As set forth in co pending application Ser. No. 09 104 717 C5E10 is an antibody that recognizes a glycoprotein determinant of approximately 115 kDa that appears to be specific to prostate tumor cell lines e.g. DU145 PC3 or ND1 . Thus in conjunction with the present invention polypeptides that specifically bind to the same tumor associated antigen recognized by C5E10 antibodies could be used alone or conjugated with an effector moiety by the methods of the invention thereby providing a modified polypeptide that is useful for the improved treatment of neoplastic disorders. In particularly preferred embodiments a donor antibody will comprise all or part of the antigen binding region of the C5E10 antibody as secreted from the hybridoma cell line having ATCC accession No. PTA 865. The resulting polypeptide could then be conjugated to a therapeutic effector moiety as described below and administered to a patient suffering from prostate cancer in accordance with the methods herein.

In another embodiment a donor antibody of the invention binds to CD40L. Generation of anti CD154 anti CD40L antibodies has been described in U.S. 60 591337 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference. Crystal structure data for the 5c8 anti CD 154 antibody were obtained via crystallization and analysis of the CD40L 5c8 complex. The crystal structure of this CD40 ligand complexed with the Fab fragment of humanized neutralizing antibody 5c8 PDB code 1I9R was prepared using standard procedures for adding hydrogens with the program CHARMM Accelrys Inc. San Diego Calif. . N acetamide and N methylamide patches were applied to the N termini and C termini respectively. The crystal structure was solved to 3.1 at a pH of 6.50. Since CD40L is naturally a trimer there are three 5c8 Fab molecules and 5 CD40L molecules in the complex. They form three independent CD40L 5c8 interfaces in the complex. A zinc ZN atom was bound to each of the 5c8 Fab and it was included into the calculation. Calculations were carried out independently for three interfaces.

In another embodiment a donor antibody of the invention binds to MCP. Generation of anti MCP antibody 11K2 has been described in PCT US2003 037834 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference. 11K2 is a pan MCP antibody and is specific for MCP 1 MCP 2 and MCP 3. In place of crystal structure data for the 11K2 antibody a 3D structural model was generated based on the closest solved murine antibody structures for the heavy and light chains. For this purpose an antibody designated 184.1 Protein Data Bank PDB ID 184.1 was chosen as a template for modeling the 11K2 light chain and an antibody designated E8 PDB ID 1 OPG was chosen as the template for modeling the heavy chain. The model was further refined by a series of energy minimization steps to relieve unfavorable atomic contacts and optimize electrostatic and van der Waals interactions.

The computer model of the structure of an antibody e.g. 11K2 can in turn serve as a starting point for predicting the three dimensional structure of an antibody containing the 11K2 complementarity determining regions substituted in human framework structures. Additional models can be constructed representing the structure as further amino acid substitutions are introduced.

Three dimensional structural information for some antibodies is publicly available for example from the Research Collaboratory for Structural Bioinformatics Protein Data Bank PDB . The PDB is freely accessible via the World Wide Web internet and is described by Berman et al. 2000 28 235. Computer modeling allows for the identification of CDR interacting residues.

As set forth above acceptor Ig variable region sequences need not be derived from antibodies which exist in nature. Although human antibody Ig variable region sequences may be chosen other sequences e.g. consensus sequences germline sequences and human sequences comprising amino acid modifications may also be selected.

In one embodiment protein sequence databases of human variable domains may be searched with the donor variable domain sequence.

In one embodiment the most suitable acceptor sequence s are selected by looking at overall sequence similarity in particular sequence similarity at those positions whose amino acid sidechains sterically interact with any residues of the CDRs. These residues can be identified e.g. by structural analysis of an xray structure or 3D homology model of the donor variable domain.

Alternatively since the structure of antibodies is well conserved a list of residue positions that usually interact with the CDRs can be used in which case it is not necessary to have a structural model. For example a number of FR residues have been identified as canonical Chothia C Lesk A M. 196 901 17 Al Lazikani B et al. 273 927 48 for particular CDR conformations and the amino acids at these positions in the acceptor sequence should ideally be identical to those in the donor sequence. All but one L1 L2 L3 H1 H2 of the six antibody CDRs have been found to correspond to a limited number of canonical conformational states depending on the residue types of the canonical residues and the length of the individual CDRs.

Other criteria for selection of appropriate acceptor variable region sequences include physico chemical properties such as stability solubility aggregation and biological properties such as expression levels in cells.

In the novel humanization approach described herein the following basic steps are taken to construct a humanized antibody variable domain 

The final sequence designs consist of an acceptor variable domain framework that is largely or completely unchanged with CDRs that have been designed to fit the framework.

If no acceptor framework can be identified in which all important residues are identical to the donor framework a list of the differences is made. It is important that multiple acceptor frameworks are considered since the sequence with the fewest differences in the important residues is not necessarily the best acceptor candidate. For instance if the most similar sequence has one difference e.g. an ALA residue in the donor that is an ARG residue in the acceptor that involves a difference in charge it can be a less suitable candidate than an acceptor sequence with two differences e.g. LEU and SER to ILE and ALA respectively .

The sequence differences in the framework that may affect CDR conformation are determined and nominated as a flexible zone . All residues most of them are in CDRs but some may be in a FR that are adjacent to these identified residues are selected as a mutation zone . If the 3D structure of the donor or acceptor antibody or antibody variable region is known such a structure can be used in this analysis. Antibodies whose 3D structure has been analyzed fall into a limited number of structural or canonical classes based on the conformation of the CDRs. Five of the six CDRs excluding H3 frequently fall into one of two to six of these canonical classes Chothia and Lesk 1987 Chothia et al. 1989 . Canonical class members have similar backbone conformation based on the presence of conserved canonical residues in FR and CDR which maintain CDR conformation e.g. by hydrogen bonding electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions .

Thus because acceptor canonical FR residues are important for maintaining CDR conformation residue differences between donor and acceptor at these residue positions are important. Exemplary canonical residues include residues 2 25 27B 28 29 30 33 48 51 52 64 71 90 94 and 95 of the light chain and residues 24 26 27 29 34 35 35A 52 54 55 71 and 94 of the heavy chain FR residues are underlined . Additional residues e.g. CDR structure determining residues can be identified according to the methodology of Martin and Thornton 1996 263 800. FR interface packing residues and unusual murine residues that are close to the binding site or residues in the Vernier Zone which forms a platform on which the CDRs rest Foote et al. J. Mol. Biol. 224 p. 487 1992 those close to peptide antigen and those close to CDR H3 should be considered to be important residues.

The variable region 3D environment around each of the important acceptor FR amino acids that differs from the corresponding donor amino acid is determined to aid in design of CDRs to accommodate the FR differences between the donor and acceptor.

Using the list of important framework residue differences also referred to herein as flexible zone residues novel sequences are designed that will preserve the original conformation that the CDRs have in the donor antibody in one embodiment while maintaining most if not all acceptor framework residues.

To design the novel sequences candidate amino acid residues for substitution are first identified. Candidate residues for substitution are amino acids that are adjacent to the framework residues or flexible zone residues designated as important according to step 2 above also referred to herein as mutation zone residues . Although candidate residues or mutation zone residues necessarily include at least one CDR amino acid in certain embodiments they may also include other framework residues that are adjacent to the flexible zone residues. Said candidate residues include those residues which are immediately adjacent to a flexible zone residue in the sequence or primary structure of the antibody chain as well as those residues which are adjacent to the flexible zone residue in the tertiary or 3 D structure of the antibody chain. Such candidate residues can be identified based e.g. on structure as determined for example by xray or computer modeling or can be made without a structure for example using a database. Some exemplary methods are described in more detail below.

Proteins are known to fold into three dimensional structures that are dictated by the sequences of their amino acids and by the solvent in which a given protein or protein containing complex is provided. The three dimensional structure of a protein influences its biological activity and stability and that structure can be determined or predicted in a number of ways. X ray crystallography is perhaps the best known way of determining protein structure. In one embodiment candidate amino acids can be identified e.g. a CDR residue and optionally a FR residue and potential changes to the candidate amino acids can be evaluated based on the existing crystal structure of an antibody or an antibody fragment e.g. a Fab fragment. Numerous antibody crystal structures exist and can be found e.g. using the Brookhaven Protein Databank or other private or public databases. If the crystal structure for a given acceptor or donor antibody or variable region does not exist methods known in the art can be used to obtain the structure of an antibody antibody variable region or antibody fragment including a fragment consisting of e.g. a single chain antibody Fab fragment etc. A structure of an antigen antibody complex may also be used. Methods for forming crystals of an antibody an antibody fragment or scFv antigen complex have been reported by for example van den Elsen et al. 96 13679 13684 1999 which is expressly incorporated by reference herein .

Estimates of structure can also be made using circular dichroism light scattering or by measuring the absorption and emission of radiant energy. Other useful techniques include neutron diffraction and nuclear magnetic resonance NMR . All of these methods are known to those of ordinary skill in the art and they have been well described in standard textbooks see e.g. 4th Ed. W. J. Moore Prentiss Hall N.J. 1972 or K. E. Van Holde Prentiss Hall N.J. 1971 and numerous publications. Such techniques although they yield only approximate data can be carried out to inform one or more steps of the method of the invention.

Alternatively tertiary structure can be predicted using model building of three dimensional structures of one or more homologous proteins or protein complexes that have a known three dimensional structure. This can be accomplished using e.g. structure homology modeling in which the most similar heavy and light chain in a protein databank is used as a template to build a model of the antibody.

Alternatively for ab initio modeling of CDRs a structural database is not necessary rather structures are created based on certain algorithms. One example is the CONGEN conformation search method described by Broccoleri and Karplus 1987. Biopolymers 26 137 168 .

Having selected candidate amino acids for substitution the next step is to redesign the variable region sequence by electing an amino acid that will replace the candidate amino acid. As described above the elected amino acid is a residue that will conformationally accommodate the flexible zone residue s thereby preserving the original conformation that the CDRs have in the donor antibody. In certain embodiments wherein the candidate amino acid s are all CDR residues substitution of the candidate amino acid residue s with an elected amino will preserve all of the human framework residues from the acceptor variable region. In other embodiments wherein the candidate amino acid s include a framework residue all residues in the framework region outside of the mutation zone are preserved as human.

An exemplary approach to redesigning the variable region sequences e.g. CDR sequences and optionally FR sequences is by using structure based computational design methods. The identity of the residues in the flexible zone is fixed to acceptor residues but their 3D positions are allowed to change during the calculation. The residues in the mutation zone are allowed to change both their amino acid identity and conformation. All residues in the CDRs outside of the mutation zone are donor and all residues in the FR outside of the mutation zone are acceptor. In this method the candidate residues e.g. CDR residues and optionally FR residues that have sidechains that are geometrically close e.g. within about 4 25 of such regions in particular 

The number of protein mutants that is evaluated computationally can be very large since every variable amino acid position can be mutated into all 20 standard amino acids or a subset of 20 amino acids e.g. polar or nonpolar amino acids small or large side chain amino acids sterically hindered or flexible amino acids . Exemplary computational algorithms used to perform energy evaluations to rank the results of the computational analysis include dead end elimination and tree search algorithms see for example Lasters et al. 8 815 822 1995 Looger and Hellinga 307 429 445 2001 and Dahiyat and Mayo 5 895 903 1996 Monte Carlo search and Simulated Annealing Kuhlman B et al. 2003 302 5649 1364 8 Ambroggio X I et al. 2006 128 4 1154 61 Free Energy Calculation Almolf M et al. 2006 90 2 433 42 and Exhaustive Conformational Sampling Green D F et al. ICE Integrated Continuum Electrostatics software package MIT 2003 .

In yet another embodiment a database e.g. in the form of a table with known antibody sequences that correspond to specific canonical states of the CDRs can be made. For instance suppose the donor antibody has a L3 CDR loop of canonical state 1 and the acceptor sequence has a framework residue difference at position x that sterically interacts with loop L3. In this case the table will be searched for other antibodies with the L3 loop in canonical state 1 in which residue x is identical or similar to the acceptor sequence. As used in this context the term similar to means similar in physicochemical properties to.

For example assume that such an antibody is found antibody z . If the sequence of the residue s in the L3 loop of antibody z that contact or interact with residue x differs from the corresponding residues in the donor L3 loop the L3 loop can be redesigned by incorporating these sequence changes. In essence if nature has found a way to produce a given canonical loop conformation with different residues at the CDR framework interface that information can be used to preserve the canonical loop conformation in the humanized antibody. Examples of similar amino acid residues include Glycine and Alanine Valine Leucine and Isoleucine Phenylalanine and Tyrosine Serine and Threonine Aspartate and Glutamate Asparagine and Glutamine.

In yet another embodiment both the computational structure based and database based methods described above can be used iteratively or in combination. In an exemplary embodiment the alteration of at least one candidate amino acid residue e.g. a CDR residue and optionally a FR residue is performed using one method e.g. a computational based method described supra followed by alteration of at least one second candidate amino acid residue e.g. a donor CDR residue and or FR amino acid residue using another method e.g. database methods described supra .

In one embodiment the methods of the invention may include an output device that displays information to a user e.g. a CRT display an LCD a printer a communication device such as a modem audio output and the like . In addition instructions for carrying out the method in part or in whole can be conferred to a medium suitable for use in an electronic device for carrying out the instructions. Thus the methods of the invention are amendable to a high throughput approach comprising software e.g. computer readable instructions and hardware e.g. computers robotics and chips . The computer implemented process is not limited to a particular computer platform particular processor or particular high level programming language.

In one embodiment the process may be iterative e.g. involving initial alteration of a candidate amino acid residue e.g. one donor CDR and or FR amino acid residue followed by affinity testing structural determination etc. and subsequent rounds of alteration of the same or different amino acid residues. To practice the present invention such alterations may be modeled e.g. made in silico and or in some embodiments performed and expressed as a polypeptide.

Having arrived at a desired mutation to make in donor CDR one can use any of a variety of available methods to produce a humanized antibody comprising the mutation.

Such polypeptides can for example be synthesized using techniques known in the art. Alternatively nucleic acid molecules encoding the desired variable regions can be synthesized and the polypeptides produced by recombinant methods.

For example once the sequence of a humanized variable region has been decided upon that variable region or a polypeptide comprising it can be made by techniques well known in the art of molecular biology. More specifically recombinant DNA techniques can be used to produce a wide range of polypeptides by transforming a host cell with a nucleic acid sequence e.g. a DNA sequence that encodes the desired variable region e.g. a modified heavy or light chain the variable domains thereof or other antigen binding fragments thereof .

In one embodiment the CDRs of the donor antibody can be altered prior to their incorporation into the acceptor framework.

In another embodiment the art recognized process of CDR grafting can be used to transfer donor CDRs into acceptor FR. In most cases all three CDRs from the heavy chain are transplanted from the donor antibody to a single acceptor framework and all three CDRs from the light chain are transplanted to a different acceptor framework. It is expected that it should not always be necessary to transplant all the CDRs as some CDRs may not be involved in binding to antigen and CDRs with different sequences and the same length can have the same folding and therefore contacts from antigen to the main chain contacts could be retained despite the different sequences . Indeed single domains Ward et al 1989 Nature 341 pp. 544 546 or even single CDRs R. Taub et al 1989 J. Biol Chem 264 pp. 259 265 can have antigen binding activities alone. However whether all or only some of the CDRs are transplanted the intention of CDR grafting is to transplant the same or much the same antigen binding site from animal to human antibodies see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 539 Winter .

In one embodiment one can prepare an expression vector including a promoter that is operably linked to a DNA sequence that encodes at least Vor V. If necessary or desired one can prepare a second expression vector including a promoter that is operably linked to a DNA sequence that encodes the complementary variable domain i.e. where the parent expression vector encodes V the second expression vector encodes Vand vice versa . A cell line e.g. an immortalized mammalian cell line can then be transformed with one or both of the expression vectors and cultured under conditions that permit expression of the chimeric variable domain or chimeric antibody see e.g. International Patent Application No. PCT GB85 00392 to Neuberger et. al. .

In one embodiment variable regions comprising donor CDRs and acceptor FR amino acid sequences can be made and then changes introduced into the nucleic acid molecules to effect the CDR amino acid substitution.

Exemplary art recognized methods for making a nucleic acid molecule encoding an amino acid sequence variant of a polypeptide include but are not limited to preparation by site directed or oligonucleotide mediated mutagenesis PCR mutagenesis and cassette mutagenesis of an earlier prepared DNA encoding the polypeptide.

Site directed mutagenesis is a preferred method for preparing substitution variants. This technique is well known in the art see e.g. Carter et al. Nucleic Acids Res. 13 4431 4443 1985 and Kunkel et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 82 488 1987 . Briefly in carrying out site directed mutagenesis of DNA the parent DNA is altered by first hybridizing an oligonucleotide encoding the desired mutation to a single strand of such parent DNA. After hybridization a DNA polymerase is used to synthesize an entire second strand using the hybridized oligonucleotide as a primer and using the single strand of the parent DNA as a template. Thus the oligonucleotide encoding the desired mutation is incorporated in the resulting double stranded DNA.

PCR mutagenesis is also suitable for making amino acid sequence variants of polypeptides. See Higuchi in PCR Protocols pp. 177 183 Academic Press 1990 and Vallette et al. Nuc. Acids Res. 17 723 733 1989 . Briefly when small amounts of template DNA are used as starting material in a PCR primers that differ slightly in sequence from the corresponding region in a template DNA can be used to generate relatively large quantities of a specific DNA fragment that differs from the template sequence only at the positions where the primers differ from the template.

Another method for preparing variants cassette mutagenesis is based on the technique described by Wells et al. Gene 34 315 323 1985 . The starting material is the plasmid or other vector comprising the DNA to be mutated. The codon s in the parent DNA to be mutated are identified. There must be a unique restriction endonuclease site on each side of the identified mutation site s . If no such restriction sites exist they may be generated using the above described oligonucleotide mediated mutagenesis method to introduce them at appropriate locations in the DNA encoding the polypeptide. The plasmid DNA is cut at these sites to linearize it. A double stranded oligonucleotide encoding the sequence of the DNA between the restriction sites but containing the desired mutation s is synthesized using standard procedures wherein the two strands of the oligonucleotide are synthesized separately and then hybridized together using standard techniques. This double stranded oligonucleotide is referred to as the cassette. This cassette is designed to have 5 and 3 ends that are compatible with the ends of the linearized plasmid such that it can be directly ligated to the plasmid. This plasmid now contains the mutated DNA sequence.

A variable region generated by the methods of the invention can be re modeled and further altered to further increase antigen binding. Thus the steps described above can be preceded or followed by additional steps including e.g. affinity maturation. In addition empirical binding data can be used to inform further optimization.

It will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the polypeptides of the invention may further be modified such that they vary in amino acid sequence but not in desired activity. For example additional nucleotide substitutions leading to amino acid substitutions at non essential amino acid residues may be made to the protein For example a nonessential amino acid residue in an immunoglobulin polypeptide may be replaced with another amino acid residue from the same side chain family. In another embodiment a string of amino acids can be replaced with a structurally similar string that differs in order and or composition of side chain family members i.e. a conservative substitution in which an amino acid residue is replaced with an amino acid residue having a similar side chain may be made.

Families of amino acid residues having similar side chains have been defined in the art including basic side chains e.g. lysine arginine histidine acidic side chains e.g. aspartic acid glutamic acid uncharged polar side chains e.g. glycine asparagine glutamine serine threonine tyrosine cysteine nonpolar side chains e.g. alanine valine leucine isoleucine proline phenylalanine methionine tryptophan beta branched side chains e.g. threonine valine isoleucine and aromatic side chains e.g. tyrosine phenylalanine tryptophan histidine .

Aside from amino acid substitutions the present invention contemplates other modifications e.g. to Fc region amino acid sequences in order to generate an Fc region variant with altered effector function. One may for example delete one or more amino acid residues of the Fc region in order to reduce or enhance binding to an FcR. In one embodiment one or more of the Fc region residues can be modified in order to generate such an Fc region variant. Generally no more than one to about ten Fc region residues will be deleted according to this embodiment of the invention. The Fc region herein comprising one or more amino acid deletions will preferably retain at least about 80 and preferably at least about 90 and most preferably at least about 95 of the starting Fc region or of a native sequence human Fc region.

One may also make amino acid insertion Fc region variants which variants have altered effector function. For example one may introduce at least one amino acid residue e.g. one to two amino acid residues and generally no more than ten residues adjacent to one or more of the Fc region positions identified herein as impacting FcR binding. By adjacent is meant within one to two amino acid residues of a Fc region residue identified herein. Such Fc region variants may display enhanced or diminished FcRn binding.

Such Fc region variants will generally comprise at least one amino acid modification in the Fc region. In one embodiment amino acid modifications may be combined. For example the variant Fc region may include two three four five etc substitutions therein e.g. of the specific Fc region positions identified herein. In another embodiment a polypeptide may have altered binding to FcRn and to another Fc receptor.

In one embodiment the polypeptides of the invention e.g. humanized Ig variable regions and or polypeptides comprising humanized Ig variable regions may be produced by recombinant methods. For example a polynucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide can be inserted in a suitable expression vector for recombinant expression. Where the polypeptide is an antibody polynucleotides encoding additional light and heavy chain variable regions optionally linked to constant regions may be inserted into the same or different expression vector. An affinity tag sequence e.g. a His 6 tag may optionally be attached or included within the polypeptide sequence to facilitate downstream purification. The DNA segments encoding immunoglobulin chains are the operably linked to control sequences in the expression vector s that ensure the expression of immunoglobulin polypeptides. Expression control sequences include but are not limited to promoters e.g. naturally associated or heterologous promoters signal sequences enhancer elements and transcription termination sequences. Preferably the expression control sequences are eukaryotic promoter systems in vectors capable of transforming or transfecting eukaryotic host cells. Once the vector has been incorporated into the appropriate host the host is maintained under conditions suitable for high level expression of the nucleotide sequences and the collection and purification of the polypeptide.

These expression vectors are typically replicable in the host organisms either as episomes or as an integral part of the host chromosomal DNA. Commonly expression vectors contain selection markers e.g. ampicillin resistance hygromycin resistance tetracycline resistance or neomycin resistance to permit detection of those cells transformed with the desired DNA sequences see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 704 362 .

Other microbes such as yeast are also useful for expression. and are exemplary yeast hosts with suitable vectors having expression control sequences e.g. promoters an origin of replication termination sequences and the like as desired. Typical promoters include 3 phosphoglycerate kinase and other glycolytic enzymes. Inducible yeast promoters include among others promoters from alcohol dehydrogenase isocytochrome C and enzymes responsible for methanol maltose and galactose utilization.

In addition to microorganisms mammalian tissue culture may also be used to express and produce the polypeptides of the present invention e.g. polynucleotides encoding immunoglobulins or fragments thereof . See Winnacker From Genes to Clones VCH Publishers N.Y. N.Y. 1987 . Eukaryotic cells are actually preferred because a number of suitable host cell lines capable of secreting heterologous proteins e.g. intact immunoglobulins have been developed in the art and include CHO cell lines various Cos cell lines HeLa cells 293 cells myeloma cell lines transformed B cells and hybridomas. Expression vectors for these cells can include expression control sequences such as an origin of replication a promoter and an enhancer Queen et al. 89 49 1986 and necessary processing information sites such as ribosome binding sites RNA splice sites polyadenylation sites and transcriptional terminator sequences. Preferred expression control sequences are promoters derived from immunoglobulin genes SV40 adenovirus bovine papilloma virus cytomegalovirus and the like. See Co et al. 148 1149 1992 .

The vectors containing the polynucleotide sequences of interest e.g. the heavy and light chain encoding sequences and expression control sequences can be transferred into the host cell by well known methods which vary depending on the type of cellular host. For example calcium chloride transfection is commonly utilized for prokaryotic cells whereas calcium phosphate treatment electroporation lipofection biolistics or viral based transfection may be used for other cellular hosts. See generally Sambrook et al. Cold Spring Harbor Press 2nd ed. 1989 . Other methods used to transform mammalian cells include the use of polybrene protoplast fusion liposomes electroporation and microinjection see generally Sambrook et al. supra . For production of transgenic animals transgenes can be microinjected into fertilized oocytes or can be incorporated into the genome of embryonic stem cells and the nuclei of such cells transferred into enucleated oocytes.

The subject polypeptide can also be incorporated in transgenes for introduction into the genome of a transgenic animal and subsequent expression e.g. in the milk of a transgenic animal see e.g. Deboer et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 741 957 Rosen U.S. Pat. No. 5 304 489 and Meade U.S. Pat. No. 5 849 992. Suitable transgenes include coding sequences for light and or heavy chains in operable linkage with a promoter and enhancer from a mammary gland specific gene such as casein or beta lactoglobulin.

Polypeptides e.g. polypeptides can be expressed using a single vector or two vectors. For example antibody heavy and light chains may be cloned on separate expression vectors and co transfected into cells.

In one embodiment signal sequences may be used to facilitate expression of polypeptides of the invention.

Once expressed the polypeptides can be purified according to standard procedures of the art including ammonium sulfate precipitation affinity columns e.g. protein A or protein G column chromatography HPLC purification gel electrophoresis and the like see generally Scopes Protein Purification Springer Verlag N.Y. 1982 .

Either the humanized Ig variable regions or polypeptides comprising them can be expressed by host cells or cell lines in culture. They can also be expressed in cells in vivo. The cell line that is transformed e.g. transfected to produce the altered antibody can be an immortalized mammalian cell line such as those of lymphoid origin e.g. a myeloma hybridoma trioma or quadroma cell line . The cell line can also include normal lymphoid cells such as B cells that have been immortalized by transformation with a virus e.g. the Epstein Barr virus .

Although typically the cell line used to produce the polypeptide is a mammalian cell line cell lines from other sources such as bacteria and yeast can also be used. In particular derived bacterial strains can be used especially e.g. phage display.

Some immortalized lymphoid cell lines such as myeloma cell lines in their normal state secrete isolated Ig light or heavy chains. If such a cell line is transformed with a vector that expresses an altered antibody prepared during the process of the invention it will not be necessary to carry out the remaining steps of the process provided that the normally secreted chain is complementary to the variable domain of the Ig chain encoded by the vector prepared earlier.

If the immortalized cell line does not secrete or does not secrete a complementary chain it will be necessary to introduce into the cells a vector that encodes the appropriate complementary chain or fragment thereof.

In the case where the immortalized cell line secretes a complementary light or heavy chain the transformed cell line may be produced for example by transforming a suitable bacterial cell with the vector and then fusing the bacterial cell with the immortalized cell line e.g. by spheroplast fusion . Alternatively the DNA may be directly introduced into the immortalized cell line by electroporation.

In one embodiment a humanized Ig variable region of the invention can be present in an antigen binding fragment of any antibody. The fragments can be recombinantly produced and engineered synthesized or produced by digesting an antibody with a proteolytic enzyme. For example the fragment can be an Fab fragment digestion with papain breaks the antibody at the region before the inter chain i.e. V V disulphide bond that joins the two heavy chains. This results in the formation of two identical fragments that contain the light chain and the Vand C1 domains of the heavy chain. Alternatively the fragment can be an F ab fragment. These fragments can be created by digesting an antibody with pepsin which cleaves the heavy chain after the inter chain disulfide bond and results in a fragment that contains both antigen binding sites. Yet another alternative is to use a single chain antibody. Single chain Fv scFv fragments can be constructed in a variety of ways. For example the C terminus of Vcan be linked to the N terminus of V. Typically a linker e.g. GGGGS SEQ ID NO 29 is placed between Vand V. However the order in which the chains can be linked can be reversed and tags that facilitate detection or purification e.g. Myc His or FLAG tags can be included tags such as these can be appended to any antibody or antibody fragment of the invention their use is not restricted to scFv . Accordingly and as noted below tagged antibodies are within the scope of the present invention. In alternative embodiments the antibodies used in the methods described herein or generated by those methods can be heavy chain dimers or light chain dimers. Still further an antibody light or heavy chain or portions thereof for example a single domain antibody DAb can be used.

In another embodiment a humanized Ig variable region of the invention is present in a single chain antibody ScFv or a minibody see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 837 821 or WO 94 09817A1 . Minibodies are dimeric molecules made up of two polypeptide chains each comprising an ScFv molecule a single polypeptide comprising one or more antigen binding sites e.g. a Vdomain linked by a flexible linker to a Vdomain fused to a CH3 domain via a connecting peptide . ScFv molecules can be constructed in a V linker Vorientation or V linker Vorientation. The flexible hinge that links the Vand Vdomains that make up the antigen binding site preferably comprises from about 10 to about 50 amino acid residues. An exemplary connecting peptide for this purpose is Gly4Ser 3 SEQ ID NO 30 Huston et al. 1988 . 85 5879 . Other connecting peptides are known in the art.

Methods of making single chain antibodies are well known in the art e.g. Ho et al. 1989 77 51 Bird et al. 1988 242 423 Pantoliano et al. 1991 30 10117 Milenic et al. 1991 51 6363 Takkinen et al. 1991 4 837. Minibodies can be made by constructing an ScFv component and connecting peptide CHcomponent using methods described in the art see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 837 821 or WO 94 09817A1 . These components can be isolated from separate plasmids as restriction fragments and then ligated and recloned into an appropriate vector. Appropriate assembly can be verified by restriction digestion and DNA sequence analysis. In one embodiment a minibody of the invention comprises a connecting peptide. In one embodiment the connecting peptide comprises a Gly Ser linker e.g. GGGSSGGGSGG SEQ ID NO 31 .

In another embodiment a tetravalent minibody can be constructed. Tetravalent minibodies can be constructed in the same manner as minibodies except that two ScFv molecules are linked using a flexible linker e.g. having an amino acid sequence G4S G3AS SEQ ID NO 32 .

In another embodiment a humanized variable region of the invention can be present in a diabody. Diabodies are similar to scFv molecules but usually have a short less than 10 and preferably 1 5 amino acid residue linker connecting both variable domains such that the Vand Vdomains on the same polypeptide chain can not interact. Instead the Vand Vdomain of one polypeptide chain interact with the Vand Vdomain respectively on a second polypeptide chain WO 02 02781 .

In another embodiment a humanized variable region of the invention can be present in an immunoreactive fragment or portion of an antibody e.g. an scFv molecule a minibody a tetravalent minibody or a diabody operably linked to an FcR binding portion. In an exemplary embodiment the FcR binding portion is a complete Fc region.

Preferably the humanization methods described herein result in Ig variable regions in which the affinity for antigen is not substantially changed compared to the donor antibody.

In one embodiment polypeptides comprising the variable domains of the instant invention bind to antigens with a binding affinity greater than or equal to about 10 10 10 10 10 or 10M including affinities intermediate of these values .

Affinity avidity and or specificity can be measured in a variety of ways. Generally and regardless of the precise manner in which affinity is defined or measured the methods of the invention improve antibody affinity when they generate an antibody that is superior in any aspect of its clinical application to the antibody or antibodies from which it was made for example the methods of the invention are considered effective or successful when a modified antibody can be administered at a lower dose or less frequently or by a more convenient route of administration than an antibody or antibodies from which it was made .

More specifically the affinity between an antibody and an antigen to which it binds can be measured by various assays including e.g. an ELISA assay a BiaCore assay or the KinExA 3000 assay available from Sapidyne Instruments Boise Id. . The ELISA assay was used to measure the affinities of anti VLA 4 antibodies see Example 3 below . Briefly sepharose beads are coated with antigen the antigen used in the methods of the invention can be any antigen of interest e.g. a cancer antigen a cell surface protein or secreted protein an antigen of a pathogen e.g. a bacterial or viral antigen e.g. an HIV antigen an influenza antigen or a hepatitis antigen or an allergen by covalent attachment. Dilutions of antibody to be tested are prepared and each dilution is added to the designated wells on a plate. A detection antibody e.g. goat anti human IgG HRP conjugate is the added to each well followed by a chromagenic substrate e.g. HRP . The plate is then read in ELISA plate reader at 450 nM and EC50 values are calculated. It is understood however that the methods described here are generally applicable they are not limited to the production of antibodies that bind any particular antigen or class of antigens. 

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that determining affinity is not always as simple as looking at a single figure. Since antibodies have two arms their apparent affinity is usually much higher than the intrinsic affinity between the variable region and the antigen this is believed to be due to avidity . Intrinsic affinity can be measured using scFv or Fab fragments.

Polypeptides comprising humanized Ig variable regions may be functionalized for a desired effect. For example in certain embodiments the polypeptides may be modified e.g. by chemical or genetic means by conjugation ie. physically linked to an additional moiety e.g. a functional moiety such as for example a PEGylation moiety a blocking moiety a detectable moiety a diagnostic moiety and or a therapeutic moiety that serves to improve the desired function e.g. therapeutic efficacy of the polypeptide. Chemical conjugation may be performed by randomly or by site specific modification of particular residues within the polypeptide. Exemplary functional moieties are first described below followed by useful chemistries for linking such functional moieties to different amino acid side chain chemistries of an polypeptide.

Examples of useful functional moieties include but are not limited to a PEGylation moiety a blocking moiety detectable moiety a diagnostic moiety and a therapeutic moiety.

Exemplary PEGylation moieties include moieties of polyalkylene glycol moiety for example a PEG moiety and preferably a PEG maleimide moiety. Preferred pegylation moieties or related polymers can be for example polyethylene glycol PEG polypropylene glycol PPG polyoxyethylated glycerol POG and other polyoxyethylated polyols polyvinyl alcohol PVA and other polyalkylene oxides polyoxyethylated sorbitol or polyoxyethylated glucose. The polymer can be a homopolymer a random or block copolymer a terpolymer based on the monomers listed above straight chain or branched substituted or unsubstituted as long as it has at least one active sulfone moiety. The polymeric portion can be of any length or molecular weight but these characteristics can affect the biological properties. Polymer average molecular weights particularly useful for decreasing clearance rates in pharmaceutical applications are in the range of 2 000 to 35 000 daltons. In addition if two groups are linked to the polymer one at each end the length of the polymer can impact upon the effective distance and other spatial relationships between the two groups. Thus one skilled in the art can vary the length of the polymer to optimize or confer the desired biological activity. PEG is useful in biological applications for several reasons. PEG typically is clear colorless odorless soluble in water stable to heat inert to many chemical agents does not hydrolyze and is nontoxic.

Preferably PEGylation moieties are attached to altered Fc containing polypeptides of the invention that have enhanced life. A PEGylation moiety can serve to further enhance the half life of the polypeptide by increasing the molecule s apparent molecular weight. The increased apparent molecular weight reduces the rate of clearance from the body following subcutaneous or systemic administration. In many cases a PEGylation also serve to decrease antigenicity and immunogenicity. In addition PEGylation can increase the solubility of the polypeptide.

Exemplary blocking moieties include cysteine adducts cystine mixed disulfide adducts or other compounds of sufficient steric bulk and or charge such that antigen dependent effector function is reduced for example by inhibiting the ability of the Fc region to bind an Fc receptor or complement protein. Preferably said blocking moieties are conjugated to polypeptides of the invention with reduced effector function such that effector function is further reduced.

Exemplary detectable moieties which may be useful for conjugation to the polypeptides of the invention include fluorescent moieties radioisotopic moieties radiopaque moieties and the like e.g. detectable labels such as biotin fluorophores chromophores spin resonance probes or radiolabels. Exemplary fluorophores include fluorescent dyes e.g. fluorescein rhodamine and the like and other luminescent molecules e.g. luminal . A fluorophore may be environmentally sensitive such that its fluorescence changes if it is located close to one or more residues in the modified protein that undergo structural changes upon binding a substrate e.g. dansyl probes . Exemplary radiolabels include small molecules containing atoms with one or more low sensitivity nuclei C N H I I Tc K Fe Ga Ga In and the like . Other useful moieties are known in the art.

Examples of diagnostic moieties which may be useful for conjugation to the polypeptides of the invention include detectable moieties suitable for revealing the presence of a disease or disorder. Typically a diagnostic moiety allows for determining the presence absence or level of a molecule for example a target peptide protein or proteins that is associated with a disease or disorder. Such diagnostics are also suitable for prognosing and or diagnosing a disease or disorder and its progression.

Examples of therapeutic moieties which may be useful for conjugation to the polypeptides of the invention include for example anti inflammatory agents anti cancer agents anti neurodegenerative agents and anti infective agents. The functional moiety may also have one or more of the above mentioned functions.

Exemplary therapeutics include radionuclides with high energy ionizing radiation that are capable of causing multiple strand breaks in nuclear DNA and therefore suitable for inducing cell death e.g. of a cancer . Exemplary high energy radionuclides include Y I I I In Rh Sm Cu Ga Ho Lu Re and Re. These isotopes typically produce high energy or particles which have a short path length. Such radionuclides kill cells to which they are in close proximity for example neoplastic cells to which the conjugate has attached or has entered. They have little or no effect on non localized cells and are essentially non immunogenic.

Exemplary therapeutics also include cytotoxic agents such as cytostatics e.g. alkylating agents DNA synthesis inhibitors DNA intercalators or cross linkers or DNA RNA transcription regulators enzyme inhibitors gene regulators cytotoxic nucleosides tubulin binding agents hormones and hormone antagonists anti angiogenesis agents and the like.

Exemplary therapeutics also include alkylating agents such as the anthracycline family of drugs e.g. adriamycin carminomycin cyclosporin A chloroquine methopterin mithramycin porfiromycin streptonigrin porfiromycin anthracenediones and aziridines . In another embodiment the chemotherapeutic moiety is a cytostatic agent such as a DNA synthesis inhibitor. Examples of DNA synthesis inhibitors include but are not limited to methotrexate and dichloromethotrexate 3 amino 1 2 4 benzotriazine 1 4 dioxide aminopterin cytosine D arabinofuranoside 5 fluoro 5 deoxyuridine 5 fluorouracil ganciclovir hydroxyurea actinomycin D and mitomycin C. Exemplary DNA intercalators or cross linkers include but are not limited to bleomycin carboplatin carmustine chlorambucil cyclophosphamide cis diammineplatinum II dichloride cisplatin melphalan mitoxantrone and oxaliplatin.

Exemplary therapeutics also include transcription regulators such as actinomycin D daunorubicin doxorubicin homoharringtonine and idarubicin. Other exemplary cytostatic agents that are compatible with the present invention include ansamycin benzoquinones quinonoid derivatives e.g. quinolones genistein bactacyclin busulfan ifosfamide mechlorethamine triaziquone diaziquone carbazilquinone indoloquinone EO9 diaziridinyl benzoquinone methyl DZQ triethylenephosphoramide and nitrosourea compounds e.g. carmustine lomustine semustine .

Exemplary therapeutics also include cytotoxic nucleosides such as for example adenosine arabinoside cytarabine cytosine arabinoside 5 fluorouracil fludarabine floxuridine ftorafur and 6 mercaptopurine tubulin binding agents such as taxoids e.g. paclitaxel docetaxel taxane nocodazole rhizoxin dolastatins e.g. Dolastatin 10 11 or 15 colchicine and colchicinoids e.g. ZD6126 combretastatins e.g. Combretastatin A 4 AVE 6032 and vinca alkaloids e.g. vinblastine vincristine vindesine and vinorelbine navelbine anti angiogenesis compounds such as Angiostatin K1 3 DL difluoromethyl omithine endostatin fumagillin genistein minocycline staurosporine and thalidomide.

Exemplary therapeutics also include hormones and hormone antagonists such as corticosteroids e.g. prednisone progestins e.g. hydroxyprogesterone or medroprogesterone estrogens e.g. diethylstilbestrol antiestrogens e.g. tamoxifen androgens e.g. testosterone aromatase inhibitors e.g. aminogluthetimide 17 allylamino 17 demethoxygeldanamycin 4 amino 1 8 naphthalimide apigenin brefeldin A cimetidine dichloromethylene diphosphonic acid leuprolide leuprorelin luteinizing hormone releasing hormone pifithrin rapamycin sex hormone binding globulin and thapsigargin.

Exemplary therapeutics also include enzyme inhibitors such as S camptothecin curcumin deguelin 5 6 dichlorobenz imidazole 1 D ribofuranoside etoposide formestane fostriecin hispidin 2 imino 1 imidazolidineacetic acid cyclocreatine mevinolin trichostatin A tyrphostin AG 34 and tyrphostin AG 879.

Exemplary therapeutics also include gene regulators such as 5 aza 2 deoxycytidine 5 azacytidine cholecalciferol vitamin D 4 hydroxytamoxifen melatonin mifepristone raloxifene trans retinal vitamin A aldehydes retinoic acid vitamin A acid 9 cis retinoic acid 13 cis retinoic acid retinol vitamin A tamoxifen and troglitazone.

Exemplary therapeutics also include cytotoxic agents such as for example the pteridine family of drugs diynenes and the podophyllotoxins. Particularly useful members of those classes include for example methopterin podophyllotoxin or podophyllotoxin derivatives such as etoposide or etoposide phosphate leurosidine vindesine leurosine and the like.

Still other cytotoxins that are compatible with the teachings herein include auristatins e.g. auristatin E and monomethylauristan E calicheamicin gramicidin D maytansanoids e.g. maytansine neocarzinostatin topotecan taxanes cytochalasin B ethidium bromide emetine tenoposide colchicin dihydroxy anthracindione mitoxantrone procaine tetracaine lidocaine propranolol puromycin and analogs or homologs thereof.

Other types of functional moieties are known in the art and can be readily used in the methods and compositions of the present invention based on the teachings contained herein.

Chemistries for linking the foregoing functional moieties be they small molecules nucleic acids polymers peptides proteins chemotherapeutics or other types of molecules to particular amino acid side chains are known in the art for a detailed review of specific linkers see for example Hermanson G. T. Academic Press 1996 .

Exemplary art recognized linking groups for sulfhydryl moieties e.g. cysteine or thiol side chain chemistries include but are not limited to activated acyl groups e.g. alpha haloacetates chloroacetic acid or chloroacetamide activated alkyl groups Michael acceptors such as maleimide or acrylic groups groups which react with sulfhydryl moieties via redox reactions and activated di sulfide groups. The sulfhydryl moieties may also be linked by reaction with bromotrifluoroacetone alpha bromo beta 5 imidazoyl propionic acid chloroacetyl phosphate N alkylmaleimides 3 nitro 2 pyridyl disulfide methyl 2 pyridyl disulfide p chloromercuribenzoate 2 chloromercuri 4 nitrophenol or chloro 7 nitrobenzo 2 oxa 1 3 diazole.

In a preferred embodiment a cysteine or other amino acid with thiol side chain chemistry is linked during or subsequent to the production of an Fc containing polypeptide. For example when producing the modified Fc containing polypeptide using cell culture conditions are provided such that a free cysteine in solution can form a cysteine adduct with the thiol side chain of the Fc containing polypeptide. The so formed adduct may be used to inhibit glycosylation and or effector function or subsequently subjected to reducing conditions to remove the adduct and thereby allow for the use of one of the aforementioned sulfhydryl chemistries.

Exemplary art recognized linking groups for hydroxyl moieties e.g. serine threonine or tyrosine side chain chemistries include those described above for sulfhydryl moieties including activated acyl groups activated alkyl groups and Michael acceptors.

Exemplary art recognized linking groups for amine moieties e.g. asparagine or arginine side chain chemistries include but are not limited to N succinimidyl N sulfosuccinimidyl N phthalimidyl N sulfophthalimidyl 2 nitrophenyl 4 nitrophenyl 2 4 dinitrophenyl 3 sulfonyl 4 nitrophenyl 3 carboxy 4 nitrophenyl imidoesters e.g. methyl picolinimidate pyridoxal phosphate pyridoxal chloroborohydride trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid O methyliosurea and 2 4 pentanedione.

Exemplary art recognized linking groups for acidic moieties e.g. aspartic acid or glutamic side chain chemistries include activated esters and activated carbonyls. Acidic moieties can also be selectively modified by reaction with carbodiimides R N C N R such as 1 cyclohexyl 3 2 morpholinyl 4 ethyl carbodiimide or 1 ethyl 3 4 azonia 4 4 dimethylpentyl carbodiimide.

Where the functional moiety desired is a PEGylation moiety PEGylation reactions which are well known in the art may be employed. For example in one method the PEGylation is carried out via an acylation reaction or an alkylation reaction with a reactive polyethylene glycol molecule or an analogous reactive water soluble polymer . A water soluble polymer for pegylation of the antibodies and antibody fragments of the invention is polyethylene glycol PEG . In another embodiment the polymer for pegylation is polyethylene glycol maleimide i.e. PEG maleimide .

Methods for preparing pegylated antibodies and antibody fragments of the invention will generally comprise the steps of a reacting the antibody or antibody fragment with polyethylene glycol such as a reactive ester or aldehyde derivative of PEG under conditions whereby the antibody or antibody fragment becomes attached to one or more PEG groups and b obtaining the reaction products. It will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art to select the optimal reaction conditions or the acylation reactions based on known parameters and the desired result. In one embodiment a particular amino acid reside can be targeted for example the first amino acid residue altered in order to inhibit glycosylation of a second amino acid residue and preferably where the first amino acid is a cysteine or has a thiol chemistry.

The present invention has general utility when humanized variable domain or a polypeptide comprising such a domain e.g. an antibody or fusion protein binds an antigen where the binding provokes a desired response. One example of an effector mediated response is the reduction in the root cause of a disorder e.g. elimination of tumor cells or of antigen bearing cells that are involved in immune or inflammatory responses . In another embodiment one or more symptom s of a disorder can be reduced. In another embodiment the compositions described herein can be used to alter an effector mediated response in a diagnostic reagent e.g. an antibody used for imaging tumors .The methods described herein can be used to treat a subject at risk of developing a disorder or a subject currently exhibiting symptoms of a disorder.

Accordingly in certain embodiments a polypeptide of the present invention is useful in the prevention or treatment of cancer. In one embodiment an polypeptide blocks autocrine or paracrine growth e.g. by binding to a receptor without transducing a signal or by binding to a growth factor . In preferred embodiments the polypeptide is capable of binding to a tumor associated antigen.

In one embodiment the polypeptides may reduce tumor size inhibit tumor growth and or prolong the survival time of tumor bearing animals. In general the disclosed invention may be used to prophylactically or therapeutically treat any neoplasm comprising an antigenic marker that allows for the targeting of the cancerous cells by the modified antibody. Exemplary cancers or neoplasias that may be prevented or treated include but are not limited to bladder cancer breast cancer head and neck cancer prostate cancer colo rectal cancer melanoma or skin cancer breast cancer ovarian cancer cervical cancer endometrial cancer kidney cancer lung cancer e.g. small cell and non squamos cell cancers pancreatic cancer and multiple myeloma. More particularly the modified antibodies of the instant invention may be used to treat Kaposi s sarcoma CNS neoplasias capillary hemangioblastomas meningiomas and cerebral metastases melanoma gastrointestinal and renal sarcomas rhabdomyosarcoma glioblastoma preferably glioblastoma multiforme leiomyosarcoma retinoblastoma papillary cystadenocarcinoma of the ovary Wilm s tumor or small cell lung carcinoma. It will be appreciated that appropriate antibodies may be obtained for tumor associated antigens related to each of the forgoing neoplasias without undue experimentation using the instant disclosure or other techniques known in the art.

Exemplary hematologic malignancies that are amenable to treatment with the disclosed invention include Hodgkins and non Hodgkins lymphoma as well as leukemias including ALL L3 Burkitt s type leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL and monocytic cell leukemias. It will be appreciated that the polypeptides and methods of the present invention are particularly effective in treating a variety of B cell lymphomas including low grade follicular non Hodgkin s lymphoma NHL cell lymphoma FCC mantle cell lymphoma MCL diffuse large cell lymphoma DLCL small lymphocytic SL NHL intermediate grade follicular NHL intermediate grade diffuse NHL high grade immunoblastic NHL high grade lymphoblastic NHL high grade small non cleaved cell NHL bulky disease NHL and Waldenstrom s Macroglobulinemia. It should be clear to those of skill in the art that these lymphomas will often have different names due to changing systems of classification and that patients having lymphomas classified under different names may also benefit from the combined therapeutic regimens of the present invention. In addition to the aforementioned neoplastic disorders it will be appreciated that the disclosed invention may advantageously be used to treat additional malignancies bearing compatible tumor associated antigens.

Besides neoplastic disorders the polypeptides of the instant invention are particularly effective in the treatment of autoimmune disorders or abnormal immune responses. In this regard it will be appreciated that the polypeptide of the present invention may be used to control suppress modulate or eliminate unwanted immune responses to both external antigens and autoantigens. For example in one embodiment the antigen is an autoantigen. In another embodiment the antigen is an allergan. In yet other embodiments the antigen is an alloantigen or xenoantigen. Use of the disclosed modified polypeptides to reduce an immune response to alloantigens and xenoantigens is of particular use in transplantation for example to inhibit rejection by a transplant recipient of a donor graft e.g. a tissue or organ graft or bone marrow transplant. Additionally suppression or elimination of donor T cells within a bone marrow graft is useful for inhibiting graft versus host disease.

In yet other embodiments the polypeptides of the present invention may be used to treat immune disorders that include but are not limited to allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis Allergic rhinitis Autoimmune hemolytic anemia Acanthosis nigricans Allergic contact dermatitis Addison s disease Atopic dermatitis Alopecia areata Alopecia universalis Amyloidosis Anaphylactoid purpura Anaphylactoid reaction Aplastic anemia Angioedema hereditary Angioedema idiopathic Ankylosing spondylitis Arteritis cranial Arteritis giant cell Arteritis Takayasu s Arteritis temporal Asthma Ataxia telangiectasia Autoimmune oophoritis Autoimmune orchitis Autoimmune polyendocrine failure Behcet s disease Berger s disease Buerger s disease bronchitis Bullous pemphigus Candidiasis chronic mucocutaneous Caplan s syndrome Post myocardial infarction syndrome Post pericardiotomy syndrome Carditis Celiac sprue Chagas s disease Chediak Higashi syndrome Churg Strauss disease Cirrhosis Cogan s syndrome Cold agglutinin disease CREST syndrome Crohn s disease Cryoglobulinemia Cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis Dermatitis herpetifomis Dermatomyositis Diabetes mellitus Diamond Blackfan syndrome DiGeorge syndrome Discoid lupus erythematosus Eosinophilic fascitis Episcleritis Drythema elevatum diutinum Erythema marginatum Erythema multiforme Erythema nodosum Familial Mediterranean fever Felty s syndrome Fibrosis pulmonary Glomerulonephritis anaphylactoid Glomerulonephritis autoimmune Glomerulonephritis post streptococcal Glomerulonephritis post transplantation Glomerulopathy membranous Goodpasture s syndrome Granulocytopenia immune mediated Granuloma annulare Granulomatosis allergic Granulomatous myositis Grave s disease Hashimoto s thyroiditis Hemolytic disease of the newborn Hemochromatosis idiopathic Henoch Schoenlein purpura Hepatitis chronic active and chronic progressive Histiocytosis X Hypereosinophilic syndrome Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura Job s syndrome Juvenile dermatomyositis Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis Juvenile chronic arthritis Kawasaki s disease Keratitis Keratoconjunctivitis sicca Landry Guillain Barre Strohl syndrome Leprosy leproma tous Loeffler s syndrome lupus lupus nephritis Lyell s syndrome Lyme disease Lymphomatoid granulomatosis Mastocytosis systemic Mixed connective tissue disease Mononeuritis multiplex Muckle Wells syndrome Mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome Mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome Multicentric reticulohistiocytosis Multiple sclerosis Myasthenia gravis Mycosis fungoides Necrotizing vasculitis systemic Nephrotic syndrome Overlap syndrome Panniculitis Paroxysmal cold hemoglobinuria Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria Pemphigoid Pemphigus Pemphigus erythematosus Pemphigus foliaceus Pemphigus vulgaris Pigeon breeder s disease Pneumonitis hypersensitivity Polyarteritis nodosa Polymyalgia rheumatic Polymyositis Polyneuritis idiopathic Portuguese familial polyneuropathies Pre eclampsia eclampsia Primary biliary cirrhosis Progressive systemic sclerosis Scleroderma Psoriasis Psoriatic arthritis Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis Pulmonary fibrosis Raynaud s phenomenon syndrome Reidel s thyroiditis Reiter s syndrome Relapsing polychrondritis Rheumatic fever Rheumatoid arthritis Sarcoidosis Scleritis Sclerosing cholangitis Scleroderma Serum sickness Sezary syndrome Sjogren s syndrome Stevens Johnson syndrome Still s disease Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis Sympathetic ophthalmia Systemic lupus erythematosus Transplant rejection Ulcerative colitis Undifferentiated connective tissue disease Urticaria chronic Urticaria cold Uveitis Vitiligo Weber Christian disease Wegener s granulomatosis and Wiskott Aldrich syndrome.

In yet other embodiments the polypeptides of the present invention may be used to treat inflammatory disorders that are caused at least in part or exacerbated by inflammation e.g. increased blood flow edema activation of immune cells e.g. proliferation cytokine production or enhanced phagocytosis . Exemplary inflammatory disorders include those in which inflammation or inflammatory factors e.g. matrix metalloproteinases MMPs nitric oxide NO TNF interleukins plasma proteins cellular defense systems cytokines lipid metabolites proteases toxic radicals mitochondria apoptosis adhesion molecules etc. are involved or are present in a given area or tissue in aberrant amounts e.g. in amounts which may be advantageous to alter e.g. to benefit the subject. The inflammatory process is the response of living tissue to damage. The cause of inflammation may be due to physical damage chemical substances micro organisms tissue necrosis cancer or other agents. Acute inflammation is short lasting lasting only a few days. If it is longer lasting however then it may be referred to as chronic inflammation.

Inflammatory disorders include acute inflammatory disorders chronic inflammatory disorders and recurrent inflammatory disorders. Acute inflammatory disorders are generally of relatively short duration and last for from about a few minutes to about one to two days although they may last several weeks. The main characteristics of acute inflammatory disorders include increased blood flow exudation of fluid and plasma proteins edema and emigration of leukocytes such as neutrophils. Chronic inflammatory disorders generally are of longer duration e.g. weeks to months to years or even longer and are associated histologically with the presence of lymphocytes and macrophages and with proliferation of blood vessels and connective tissue. Recurrent inflammatory disorders include disorders which recur after a period of time or which have periodic episodes. Examples of recurrent inflammatory disorders include asthma and multiple sclerosis. Some disorders may fall within one or more categories.

Inflammatory disorders are generally characterized by heat redness swelling pain and loss of function. Examples of causes of inflammatory disorders include but are not limited to microbial infections e.g. bacterial viral and fungal infections physical agents e.g. burns radiation and trauma chemical agents e.g. toxins and caustic substances tissue necrosis and various types of immunologic reactions. Examples of inflammatory disorders include but are not limited to Alzheimer s severe asthma atherosclerosis cachexia CHF ischemia and coronary restenosis osteoarthritis rheumatoid arthritis fibrosis radiation induced or juvenile arthritis acute and chronic infections bacterial viral and fungal acute and chronic bronchitis sinusitis and other respiratory infections including the common cold acute and chronic gastroenteritis and colitis and Crohn s diseas acute and chronic cystitis and urethritis acute respiratory distress syndrome cystic fibrosis acute and chronic dermatitis psoriasis acute and chronic conjunctivitis acute and chronic serositis pericarditis peritonitis synovitis pleuritis and tendinitis uremic pericarditis acute and chronic cholecystis acute and chronic vaginitis stroke inflammation of the brain or central nervous system caused by trauma and ulcerative colitis acute and chronic uveitis drug reactions diabetic nephropathy and burns thermal chemical and electrical . Other inflammatory disorders or conditions that can be prevented or treated with the antibodies or antigen binding fragments of the invention include inflammation due to corneal transplantation chronic obstructive pulmonary disease hepatitis C lymphoma multiple myeloma and osteoarthritis.

In another embodiment the polypeptides of the invention can be used to prevent or treat neurodegenerative disorders including but not limited to Alzheimer s stroke and traumatic brain or central nervous system injuries. Additional neurodegenerative disorders include ALS motor neuron disease diabetic peripheral neuropathy diabetic retinopathy Huntington s disease macular degeneration and Parkinson s disease.

In prophylactic applications pharmaceutical compositions comprising a polypeptide of the invention or medicaments are administered to a subject at risk for or having and not yet exhibiting symptoms of a disorder treatable with a polypeptide having an Fc region for example an immune system disorder in an amount sufficient to eliminate or reduce the risk lessen the severity or delay the outset of the disorder including biochemical histologic and or behavioral symptoms of the disorder its complications and intermediate pathological phenotypes presenting during development of the disorder.

In therapeutic applications compositions or medicaments are administered to a subject already suffering from such a disorder in an amount sufficient to cure or at least partially arrest the symptoms of the disorder biochemical histologic and or behavioral including its complications and intermediate pathological phenotypes in development of the disorder. The polypeptides of the invention are particularly useful for modulating the biological activity of a cell surface antigen that resides in the blood where the disease being treated or prevented is caused at least in part by abnormally high or low biological activity of the antigen.

In some methods administration of agent reduces or eliminates the immune disorder for example inflammation. An amount adequate to accomplish therapeutic or prophylactic treatment is defined as a therapeutically or prophylactically effective dose. In both prophylactic and therapeutic regimes agents are usually administered in several dosages until a sufficient immune response has been achieved.

It will be understood that the modified polypeptides of the invention can be used to treat a number of disorders not explicitly mentioned herein based on selection of the target molecule to which the polypeptide binds. It will be further recognized that any art recognized antibody or fusion protein may be modified according to the methods of the invention and used to treat a disorder for which it is indicated.

Polypeptides of the invention can be administered by startingeral topical intravenous oral intraarterial intracranial intraperitoneal or intranasal means for prophylactic and or therapeutic treatment. The term startingeral as used herein includes intravenous intraarterial intraperitoneal intramuscular subcutaneous rectal or vaginal administration. The most typical route of administration of a protein drug is intravascular subcutaneous or intramuscular although other routes can be effective. In some methods agents are injected directly into a particular tissue where deposits have accumulated for example intracranial injection. In some methods antibodies are administered as a sustained release composition or device such as a Medipad device. The protein drug can also be administered via the respiratory tract e.g. using a dry powder inhalation device.

Effective doses of the compositions of the present invention for the treatment of the above described conditions vary depending upon many different factors including means of administration target site physiological state of the subject whether the subject is human or an animal other medications administered and whether treatment is prophylactic or therapeutic. Usually the subject is a human but non human mammals including transgenic mammals can also be treated.

For passive immunization with an antibody the dosage ranges from about 0.0001 to 100 mg kg and more usually 0.01 to 20 mg kg of the host body weight. For example dosages can be 1 mg kg body weight or 10 mg kg body weight or within the range of 1 10 mg kg preferably at least 1 mg kg. Subjects can be administered such doses daily on alternative days weekly or according to any other schedule determined by empirical analysis. An exemplary treatment entails administration in multiple dosages over a prolonged period for example of at least six months. Additional exemplary treatment regimes entail administration once per every two weeks or once a month or once every 3 to 6 months. Exemplary dosage schedules include 1 10 mg kg or 15 mg kg on consecutive days 30 mg kg on alternate days or 60 mg kg weekly. In some methods two polypeptides with different binding specificities are administered simultaneously in which case the dosage of each polypeptide administered falls within the ranges indicated.

Polypeptides are usually administered on multiple occasions. Intervals between single dosages can be weekly monthly or yearly. In some methods dosage is adjusted to achieve a plasma antibody concentration of 1 1000 g ml and in some methods 25 300 g ml. Alternatively polypeptides can be administered as a sustained release formulation in which case less frequent administration is required. Dosage and frequency vary depending on the half life of the polypeptide in the subject. In general human antibodies show the longest half life followed by humanized antibodies chimeric antibodies and nonhuman antibodies. As discussed herein the half life also depends upon the particular mutation s present in the polypeptide.

The dosage and frequency of administration can vary depending on whether the treatment is prophylactic or therapeutic. In prophylactic applications compositions containing the present antibodies or a cocktail thereof are administered to a subject not already in the disease state to enhance the subject s resistance. Such an amount is defined to be a prophylactic effective dose. In this use the precise amounts again depend upon the subject s state of health and general immunity but generally range from 0.1 to 25 mg per dose especially 0.5 to 2.5 mg per dose. A relatively low dosage is administered at relatively infrequent intervals over a long period of time. Some subjects continue to receive treatment for the rest of their lives.

In therapeutic applications a relatively high dosage e.g. from about 1 to 200 mg of antibody per dose with dosages of from 5 to 25 mg being more commonly used at relatively short intervals is sometimes required until progression of the disease is reduced or terminated and preferably until the subject shows partial or complete amelioration of symptoms of disease. Thereafter the patent can be administered a prophylactic regime.

Doses for nucleic acids encoding antibodies range from about 10 ng to 1 g 100 ng to 100 mg 1 g to 10 mg or 30 300 g DNA per subject. Doses for infectious viral vectors vary from 10 100 or more virions per dose.

One skilled in the art would be able by routine experimentation to determine what an effective non toxic amount of polypeptide would be for the purpose of treating a disorder. For example a therapeutically active amount of a modified polypeptide may vary according to factors such as the disease stage e.g. stage I versus stage IV tumor age sex medical complications e.g. immunosuppressed conditions or diseases and weight of the subject and the ability of the modified polypeptide to elicit a desired response in the subject. The dosage regimen may be adjusted to provide the optimum therapeutic response. For example several divided doses may be administered daily or the dose may be proportionally reduced as indicated by the exigencies of the therapeutic situation.

Treatment of a subject suffering from a disease or disorder can be monitored using standard methods. Some methods entail determining a baseline value for example of an antibody level or profile in a subject before administering a dosage of agent and comparing this with a value for the profile or level after treatment. A significant increase i.e. greater than the typical margin of experimental error in repeat measurements of the same sample expressed as one standard deviation from the mean of such measurements in value of the level or profile signals a positive treatment outcome i.e. that administration of the agent has achieved a desired response . If the value for immune response does not change significantly or decreases a negative treatment outcome is indicated.

In other methods a control value i.e. a mean and standard deviation of level or profile is determined for a control population. Typically the individuals in the control population have not received prior treatment. Measured values of the level or profile in a subject after administering a therapeutic agent are then compared with the control value. A significant increase relative to the control value e.g. greater than one standard deviation from the mean signals a positive or sufficient treatment outcome. A lack of significant increase or a decrease signals a negative or insufficient treatment outcome. Administration of agent is generally continued while the level is increasing relative to the control value. As before attainment of a plateau relative to control values is an indicator that the administration of treatment can be discontinued or reduced in dosage and or frequency.

In other methods a control value of the level or profile e.g. a mean and standard deviation is determined from a control population of individuals who have undergone treatment with a therapeutic agent and whose levels or profiles have plateaued in response to treatment. Measured values of levels or profiles in a subject are compared with the control value. If the measured level in a subject is not significantly different e.g. more than one standard deviation from the control value treatment can be discontinued. If the level in a subject is significantly below the control value continued administration of agent is warranted. If the level in the subject persists below the control value then a change in treatment may be indicated.

In other methods a subject who is not presently receiving treatment but has undergone a previous course of treatment is monitored for polypeptide levels or profiles to determine whether a resumption of treatment is required. The measured level or profile in the subject can be compared with a value previously achieved in the subject after a previous course of treatment. A significant decrease relative to the previous measurement i.e. greater than a typical margin of error in repeat measurements of the same sample is an indication that treatment can be resumed. Alternatively the value measured in a subject can be compared with a control value mean plus standard deviation determined in a population of subjects after undergoing a course of treatment. Alternatively the measured value in a subject can be compared with a control value in populations of prophylactically treated subjects who remain free of symptoms of disease or populations of therapeutically treated subjects who show amelioration of disease characteristics. In all of these cases a significant decrease relative to the control level i.e. more than a standard deviation is an indicator that treatment should be resumed in a subject.

The polypeptide profile following administration typically shows an immediate peak in antibody concentration followed by an exponential decay. Without a further dosage the decay approaches pretreatment levels within a period of days to months depending on the half life of the antibody administered. For example the half life of some human antibodies is of the order of 20 days.

In some methods a baseline measurement of polypeptide to a given antigen in the subject is made before administration a second measurement is made soon thereafter to determine the peak polypeptide level and one or more further measurements are made at intervals to monitor decay of polypeptide levels. When the level of polypeptide has declined to baseline or a predetermined percentage of the peak less baseline e.g. 50 25 or 10 administration of a further dosage of polypeptide is administered. In some methods peak or subsequent measured levels less background are compared with reference levels previously determined to constitute a beneficial prophylactic or therapeutic treatment regime in other subjects. If the measured polypeptide level is significantly less than a reference level e.g. less than the mean minus one standard deviation of the reference value in population of subjects benefiting from treatment administration of an additional dosage of polypeptide is indicated.

Additional methods include monitoring over the course of treatment any art recognized physiologic symptom e.g. physical or mental symptom routinely relied on by researchers or physicians to diagnose or monitor disorders.

Polypeptides of the invention can optionally be administered in combination with other agents including any agent from Section VIII supra that are known or determined to be effective in treating the disorder or condition in need of treatment e.g. prophylactic or therapeutic . In addition the polypeptides of the invention can be conjugated to a moiety that adds functionality to the polyeptide e.g. e.g. PEG a tag a drug or a label .

It will further be appreciated that the polypeptides of the instant invention may be used in conjunction or combination with any chemotherapeutic agent or agents e.g. to provide a combined therapeutic regimen that eliminates reduces inhibits or controls the growth of neoplastic cells in vivo. Exemplary chemotherapeutic agents that are compatible with the instant invention include alkylating agents vinca alkaloids e.g. vincristine and vinblastine procarbazine methotrexate and prednisone. The four drug combination MOPP mechlethamine nitrogen mustard vincristine Oncovin procarbazine and prednisone is very effective in treating various types of lymphoma and comprises a preferred embodiment of the present invention. In MOPP resistant patients ABVD e.g. adriamycin bleomycin vinblastine and dacarbazine Ch1VPP chlorambucil vinblastine procarbazine and prednisone CABS lomustine doxorubicin bleomycin and streptozotocin MOPP plus ABVD MOPP plus ABV doxorubicin bleomycin and vinblastine or BCVPP carmustine cyclophosphamide vinblastine procarbazine and prednisone combinations can be used. Arnold S. Freedman and Lee M. Nadler in HPIM1774 1788 Kurt J. Isselbacher et al. eds. 13ed. 1994 and V. T. DeVita et al. 1997 and the references cited therein for standard dosing and scheduling. These therapies can be used unchanged or altered as needed for a particular patient in combination with one or more modified polypeptides of the invention as described herein.

Additional regimens that are useful in the context of the present invention include use of single alkylating agents such as cyclophosphamide or chlorambucil or combinations such as CVP cyclophosphamide vincristine and prednisone CHOP CVP and doxorubicin C MOPP cyclophosphamide vincristine prednisone and procarbazine CAP BOP CHOP plus procarbazine and bleomycin m BACOD CHOP plus methotrexate bleomycin and leucovorin ProMACE MOPP prednisone methotrexate doxorubicin cyclophosphamide etoposide and leucovorin plus standard MOPP ProMACE CytaBOM prednisone doxorubicin cyclophosphamide etoposide cytarabine bleomycin vincristine methotrexate and leucovorin and MACOP B methotrexate doxorubicin cyclophosphamide vincristine fixed dose prednisone bleomycin and leucovorin . Those skilled in the art will readily be able to determine standard dosages and scheduling for each of these regimens. CHOP has also been combined with bleomycin methotrexate procarbazine nitrogen mustard cytosine arabinoside and etoposide. Other compatible chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to 2 chlorodeoxyadenosine 2 CDA 2 deoxycoformycin and fludarabine.

For patients with intermediate and high grade NHL who fail to achieve remission or relapse salvage therapy is used. Salvage therapies employ drugs such as cytosine arabinoside carboplatin cisplatin etoposide and ifosfamide given alone or in combination. In relapsed or aggressive forms of certain neoplastic disorders the following protocols are often used IMVP 16 ifosfamide methotrexate and etoposide MIME methyl gag ifosfamide methotrexate and etoposide DHAP dexamethasone high dose cytarabine and cisplatin ESHAP etoposide methylpredisolone HD cytarabine cisplatin CEPP B cyclophosphamide etoposide procarbazine prednisone and bleomycin and CAMP lomustine mitoxantrone cytarabine and prednisone each with well known dosing rates and schedules.

The amount of chemotherapeutic agent to be used in combination with the modified polypeptides of the instant invention may vary by subject or may be administered according to what is known in the art. See for example Bruce A Chabner et al. in G GTPBT1233 1287 Joel G. Hardman et al. eds. 9ed. 1996 .

While the modified polypeptides may be administered as described herein it must be emphasized that in other embodiments modified polypeptides may be administered to otherwise healthy patients as a first line therapy. In such embodiments the modified polypeptides may be administered to patients having normal or average red marrow reserves and or to patients that have not and are not undergoing. As used herein the administration of modified polypeptides in conjunction or combination with an adjunct therapy means the sequential simultaneous coextensive concurrent concomitant or contemporaneous administration or application of the therapy and the disclosed antibodies. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the administration or application of the various components of the combined therapeutic regimen may be timed to enhance the overall effectiveness of the treatment. For example chemotherapeutic agents could be administered in standard well known courses of treatment followed within a few weeks by radioimmunoconjugates of the present invention. Conversely cytotoxin associated modified polypeptides could be administered intravenously followed by tumor localized external beam radiation. In yet other embodiments the modified polypeptide may be administered concurrently with one or more selected chemotherapeutic agents in a single office visit. A skilled artisan e.g. an experienced oncologist would be readily be able to discern effective combined therapeutic regimens without undue experimentation based on the selected adjunct therapy and the teachings of the instant specification.

In this regard it will be appreciated that the combination of the modified polypeptide and the chemotherapeutic agent may be administered in any order and within any time frame that provides a therapeutic benefit to the patient. That is the chemotherapeutic agent and modified polypeptide may be administered in any order or concurrently. In selected embodiments the modified polypeptides of the present invention will be administered to patients that have previously undergone chemotherapy. In yet other embodiments the modified polypeptides and the chemotherapeutic treatment will be administered substantially simultaneously or concurrently. For example the patient may be given the modified antibody while undergoing a course of chemotherapy. In preferred embodiments the modified antibody will be administered within 1 year of any chemotherapeutic agent or treatment. In other preferred embodiments the modified polypeptide will be administered within 10 8 6 4 or 2 months of any chemotherapeutic agent or treatment. In still other preferred embodiments the modified polypeptide will be administered within 4 3 2 or 1 week of any chemotherapeutic agent or treatment. In yet other embodiments the modified polypeptide will be administered within 5 4 3 2 or 1 days of the selected chemotherapeutic agent or treatment. It will further be appreciated that the two agents or treatments may be administered to the patient within a matter of hours or minutes i.e. substantially simultaneously .

The therapeutic compositions of the invention include at least one of the polypeptides produced by a method described herein in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier refers to at least one component of a pharmaceutical preparation that is normally used for administration of active ingredients. As such a carrier may contain any pharmaceutical excipient used in the art and any form of vehicle for administration. The compositions may be for example injectable solutions aqueous suspensions or solutions non aqueous suspensions or solutions solid and liquid oral formulations salves gels ointments intradermal patches creams lotions tablets capsules sustained release formulations and the like. Additional excipients may include for example colorants taste masking agents solubility aids suspension agents compressing agents enteric coatings sustained release aids and the like.

Agents of the invention are often administered as pharmaceutical compositions comprising an active therapeutic agent i.e. and a variety of other pharmaceutically acceptable components. See 15th ed. Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa. 1980 . The preferred form depends on the intended mode of administration and therapeutic application. The compositions can also include depending on the formulation desired pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic carriers or diluents which are defined as vehicles commonly used to formulate pharmaceutical compositions for animal or human administration. The diluent is selected so as not to affect the biological activity of the combination. Examples of such diluents are distilled water physiological phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solutions dextrose solution and Hank s solution. In addition the pharmaceutical composition or formulation may also include other carriers adjuvants or nontoxic nontherapeutic nonimmunogenic stabilizers and the like.

Polypeptides can be administered in the form of a depot injection or implant preparation which can be formulated in such a manner as to permit a sustained release of the active ingredient. An exemplary composition comprises polypeptide at 5 mg mL formulated in aqueous buffer consisting of 50 mM L histidine 150 mM NaCl adjusted to pH 6.0 with HCl. An exemplary generic formulation buffer is 20 mM sodium citrate pH 6.0 10 sucrose 0.1 Tween 80.

Typically compositions are prepared as injectables either as liquid solutions or suspensions solid forms suitable for solution in or suspension in liquid vehicles prior to injection can also be prepared. The preparation also can be emulsified or encapsulated in liposomes or micro particles such as polylactide polyglycolide or copolymer for enhanced adjuvant effect as discussed above see Langer 249 1527 1990 and Hanes 28 97 1997 .

In general the practice of the present invention employs unless otherwise indicated conventional techniques of chemistry molecular biology recombinant DNA technology immunology especially e.g. antibody technology and standard techniques in electrophoresis. See e.g. Sambrook Fritsch and Maniatis Molecular Cloning Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 1989 Antibody Engineering Protocols Methods in Molecular Biology 510 Paul S. Humana Pr 1996 Antibody Engineering A Practical Approach Practical Approach Series 169 McCafferty Ed. Irl Pr 1996 Antibodies A Laboratory Manual Harlow et al. C.S.H.L. Press Pub. 1999 and Current Protocols in Molecular Biology eds. Ausubel et al. John Wiley Sons 1992 .

This invention is further illustrated by the following examples which should not be construed as limiting. The contents of all references patents and published patent applications cited throughout this application as well as the figures and the sequence listing are hereby incorporated by reference.

For humanization of the B3F6 VL chain the framework sequence gi 21669417 BAC01733 was selected as the acceptor.

Sequence analysis revealed that FR residue 2 differs between the donor and acceptor F in donor V in acceptor . The residue was identified as being important because it interacts with H93 in CDR L3 involved in binding peptide antigen.

The light chain environment around the F at position 2 was examined in the donor antibody. In one embodiment the I at position 29 in donor DRL1 was changed to F. In another embodiment the H at position 93 was left as H or changed to I or Y. In another embodiment the H at position 93 was changed to W. In another embodiment the H at position 93 was changed to I or Y.

An alignment of the light chain of donor murine B3F6 the acceptor and the various humanized designs is shown in . The differences in FR amino acid residues and the positions of the changes made in the humanized form are bolded. Kabat numbers are indicated along the top of the alignment.

For humanization of the B3F6 VH chain the framework sequence gi 14289106 AAK57792 was selected as the acceptor. Sequence analysis revealed that FR residues 48 67 71 73 93 and 112 differed between donor and acceptor. With respect to position 48 this residue was found to be close to CDR H2 which is not close to peptide antigen. Residue 67 was found to be close to CDR H2 which is not close to peptide antigen. Residue 71 is known to be canonical and therefore was classified as important V in donor R in acceptor . Residue 73 was found to be close to CDR H2 which is not close to peptide antigen. With respect to residue 93 the residue was found to be an interface residue but there is no obvious sidechain contact. Residue 112 was found to be an unusual human residue.

The heavy chain environment around V71 was examined in the donor antibody. The N at position 51 was changed to L in one embodiment. Also the N at position 51 was changed to I.

An alignment of the heavy chain of donor murine B3F6 the acceptor and the various humanized designs is shown in . The differences in FR amino acid residues and the positions of the changes made in the humanized form are bolded. Kabat numbers are indicated along the top of the alignment.

For humanization of the murine HP1 2 VH domain SEQ ID NO 19 the human germline framework IGHV 1f SEQ ID NO 20 was selected as acceptor. The murine HP1 2 antibody has an unusual canonical residue D94 Kabat numbering which interacts with residues F27 T32 and M34 of CDR H 1 M96 of CDR H3 and A24 of FR1 as judged from the computational analysis of x ray structure of murine HP1 2 Fab fragment.

Sequence alignment analysis see indicated that human acceptor framework IGHV 1f has a threonine at position 94 in place of a murine aspartate residue. VH CDR graft SEQ ID NO 21 was predicted to have different CDR H1 and CDR H3 conformations as compared to murine HP1 2 CDR H1 and CDR H3. The computational analysis of potential substitutions at CDR positions 27 32 34 and 96 and at position 24 in the framework revealed solution structures that maintained the conformations of CDR H1 and CDR H3 to allow for threonine in position 94.

In one embodiment the V at position 24 was changed to A and the T at position 32 was changed to V while the F at position 27 the M at position 34 and the M at position 96 were retained V24A T32V SEQ ID NO 22 . In a 3D model of this embodiment the side chain of F at position 27 interacts with the side chain of A at position 24 and the non polar portion of the T94 side chain interacts with V at position 32 and M at position 34. This interaction network puts the newly designed CDR H1 in a conformation similar to that of donor murine CDR H1. Tree dimensional representations of the donor HP1 2 antibody and the V24A T32V humanization design are depicted in .

In another embodiment the V at position 24 was changed to F and the T at position 32 was changed to V while the F at position 27 the M at position 34 and the M at position 96 were retained V24F T32V SEQ ID NO 23 . In a 3D model of this embodiment the side chain of F at position 27 interacts with the side chain of F at position 24 and the non polar portion of the T94 side chain interacts with V at position 32 and M at position 34. This interaction network puts the newly designed CDR H1 in the conformation similar to donor murine CDR H1.

In another embodiment the V at position 24 was changed to S the F at position 27 was changed to Y and the T at position 32 was changed to V while the M at position 34 and the M at position 96 were retained V24S F27Y T32V SEQ ID NO 24 . In a 3D model of this embodiment the side chain of Y at position 27 forms hydrogen bonds with side chain of S at position 24 and side chain of T at position 94 while the non polar portion of the T94 side chain interacts with V at position 32. This interaction network puts the newly designed CDR H1 in the conformation similar to donor murine CDR H1.

In another embodiment the F at position 27 was changed to K the T at position 32 was changed to V and the M at position 96 was changed to L while the V at position 24 and the M at position 34 were retained F27K T32V M96L SEQ ID NO 25 . In a 3D model of this embodiment the side chain of K at position 27 forms hydrogen bonds with the side chain of T at position 94 as well as non polar contacts with V at position 24 V at position 32 and L at position 96 while the non polar portion of the T94 side chain interacts with M at position 34. This interaction network puts the newly designed CDR H1 in the conformation similar to donor murine CDR H1.

Computational analysis of the x ray structure of murine HP1 2 and VL sequences revealed that the CDRs of the murine HP1 2 VL domain SEQ ID NO 26 are compatible with the human germline acceptor framework B3 SEQ ID NO 27 and therefore a VL CDR graft SEQ ID NO 10 was built SEQ ID NO 28 . Validity of this approach to the VL was demonstrated in a different humanization effort for the HP1 2 antibody.

HP1 2 Fab fragments of different Vhumanization variants of Example 2 paired with VL CDR graft were expressed and their binding affinity for purified 4 1 VLA4 integrin were compared in an ELISA binding assay with a chimeric Fab that has murine VH and VL domains.

In this assay 1 ug ml of purified VLA4 in 50 mM NaHCO3 buffer pH 9.2 containing 10 ug ml BSA was coated on a 96 well 100 ul well Corning Easy wash plate and incubated overnight at 4 C. Following incubation the plate was blocked with 150 ul well of blocking buffer 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 150 mM NaCl and 2 Dry Milk for 60 minutes at room temperature. The plated was then washed four times with TBS Washing buffer 50 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 150 mM NaCl 0.05 Tween 20 . Dilutions of each HP1 2 Fab to be tested were prepared in binding buffer TBS buffer containing 2 Dry Milk and 100 ul of each dilution was added to the designated wells 100 ul of TBS assay buffer was used as blank control . The plate was then incubated for 60 minutes at room temperature and then washed four times with TBS Washing buffer. The detection antibody goat anti human IgG HRP conjugate was added at 100 ul well and the plated was again incubated at room temperature for 60 minutes and washed four times with TBS Washing buffer beforeadding 100 ul well HRP Substrate buffer and incubating another 30 60 minutes. To stop the reaction 100 ul of 1 N H2SO4 was added to each well. The plate was read in a Molecular Devices ELISA plate reader at 450 nM and the data was analyzed using Softmax software and EC50 values calculated by GraphPad Prism 4. The EC50 values observed for the test Fab fragments with VH and VL domains are tabulated in Table 2. All humanization variants maintained their ability to bind to VLA 4 with high affinity whereas the straight CDR graft was significantly less potent.

For one skilled in the art using no more than routine experimentation there are many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

