---

title: Board game playing system and method of incorporating city landmarks
abstract: A novel board game and a method of playing said game is herein described. The invention provides players an opportunity to traverse a town or city represented symbolically on the game board by a plurality of landmark buildings and locales that can be found throughout a typical town. Accordingly, the present invention includes both an apparatus with which the game is played as well as a method for playing the game according to the rules of play.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08172230&OS=08172230&RS=08172230
owner: Par-Go, LLC
number: 08172230
owner_city: Valdosta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060817
---
The present invention relates generally to a board game system and method for playing said game. More particularly the invention relates to a board game capable of being played by multiple players wherein the board is representative of a layout of a town or city either real or imagined including a plurality of landmark buildings and locales to be visited by each player in the process of playing.

Various and sundry board games are well known in the prior art for providing players with entertainment while they traverse a path or a variety of intersecting paths according to a set of rules that govern the player s movements around the board. Typically each player is represented by a game piece that is placed on the board to mark the player s progress through the game. Some prior art board games utilize question or activity cards that require a player to provide a correct answer or perform a task to progress in the game. U.S. Pat. No. 6 978 999 to Kline et al. provides for a set of cards which requires players to act out roles prior to advancing a game piece along the game board.

Additionally prior art board games are known to use playing boards that are representative of fanciful locations or landscapes and game boards that are representative of historical locales. The enduringly popular MONOPOLY game has as its setting depression era Atlantic City N.J. U.S. Pat. No. 6 672 590 to Olsen et al. teaches a board game having a game board that requires players to navigate a generic town using a Hometown USA motif.

The board game system of the present invention introduces players to either a fanciful or actual city or town constructed from a plurality of landmark buildings and locales and is capable of being played by players from young children to adults by the use of visual indicia and symbols throughout a plurality of instruction cards. Furthermore the instant invention is capable of being played by younger players who may lack the reading skills to actively participate in many prior art board games.

The invention disclosed herein provides a novel board game and a method of playing said game which provides players an opportunity to traverse a town or city represented symbolically on the game board by a plurality of landmark buildings and locales that can be found throughout a typical town. Accordingly the present invention includes both an apparatus with which the game is played as well as a method for playing the game according to the rules of play.

The apparatus incorporates a game board having a plurality of spaces printed thereon that make up a plurality of roads denoting various routes around the game board. A perimeter road is provided as well as a number of intersecting interior roads that provide alternative routes through the town. A plurality of landmark buildings and locales are positioned along the various roads each of which a player must visit prior to advancing to a winner s space. Additionally a plurality of color coded tokens are placed either on or proximate each landmark corresponding to a colored game piece chosen by each player to represent the player on the game board. Players collect the tokens as they advance to each subsequent landmark by rolling a pair of dice. Once a player has collected each token corresponding to the color of his or her playing piece the player may then advance to a winner s space to win the game.

The instant invention also includes a plurality of instruction cards that may be strategically situated on a space or spaces provided on the game board to enable ready access thereto. The instruction cards may comprise a plurality of different types of instructions that either reward a player or thwart their advancement through the game board. Furthermore the instruction card types are color coded to correspond to a plurality of colored spaces disposed at various points on the roads of the game board. When a player lands on a colored space they are obligated to follow the instructions on the next card of the corresponding color. Players advance through the plurality of spaces that denote the town roads by rolling a pair of dice thence advancing the number of spaces indicated by the roll.

Furthermore the game board of the present invention is capable of being customized by the players prior to beginning game play by placement of a plurality of different building types and colors as well as various plant animal and vehicular ornamentations along the board surface. This feature of the invention permits the players to construct a game board that symbolizes a different customized town each time the game is played which makes the invention ideally suited for children with developing imaginations as well as adults.

Referring now to drawing and in accordance with a preferred constructed embodiment of the present invention a novel board game for becoming familiar with various landmark features of a city or town and a method of playing said board game is herein described.

The board game may comprise a game board best seen in its various embodiments in drawing comprising a playing surface on one side thereof the playing surface being marked or printed with a plurality of playing spaces that generally interconnect to form a plurality of roads or paths around game board . The game board in one embodiment of the invention is constructed of either a pliable or a foldable material to facilitate storage while maximizing board size.

The plurality of spaces on game board are situated thereon to form a plurality of roads or streets. In one embodiment of the present invention the roads or streets are not named thereby encouraging players to name the roads according to the roads present in their town or a town or city with which they may be familiar in accordance with various landmark buildings and features that are situated at various positions around game board as will be discussed in greater detail herein below. As such no street names appear on game board . However for purposes of clarity in the explication of the present invention the streets on game board have been assigned descriptive names according to their locations and features as viewed in .

Proximate the exterior edges of game board is situated an outer perimeter road denoted by arrows thereon as shown in . PERIMETER ROAD is comprised of a plurality of spaces including four 4 START spaces that are strategically situated at the intersection of PERIMETER ROAD with other roads that lead to the interior of game board . Furthermore START spaces may be color coded with four different colors to correspond to the colors of a plurality of game pieces best seen in .

In one embodiment of the present invention game pieces comprise three dimensional cars sized to fit within a space each colored to correspond to a start space color. As an example cars or game pieces and start spaces may be colored red green yellow and blue although this color scheme is exemplary only and should not be seen as limiting of the invention since a wide variety of colors may be employed without departing from the scope thereof.

A MAIN STREET bisects the game board from one side of PERIMETER ROAD to another side thereof. As can be seen in MAIN STREET is proximate several landmark buildings including CITY HALL although the location of the buildings may be customized as will be discussed in further detail herein below. Additionally a WINNER s space is located on MAIN STREET proximate CITY HALL which space is the ultimate object of the method of playing the game. As shown in the drawing Figures MAIN STREET comprises twenty 20 two lane spaces. MAIN STREET intersects an AIRPORT HIGHWAY that runs between a portion of PERIMETER ROAD and MAIN STREET . AIRPORT HIGHWAY depicted in is a road comprising a plurality of spaces having a curvature and on which appropriately enough the PLAIN PLANE AIRPORT is located.

Referring to and a MERGING LANE also intersects with both the PERIMETER ROAD and MAIN STREET and is generally curved in shape. MERGING LANE merges at an oblique angle with MAIN STREET . As shown in the drawing Figures MERGING LANE comprises eight 8 two lane spaces.

A LOWER ARC road begins and ends in the two color coded start spaces disposed on a portion of PERIMETER ROAD and as shown in the drawing Figures encloses a school building situated along PERIMETER ROAD . LOWER ARC ROAD also intersects at two points with an UPPER LOOP Road which is generally curved in a loop shape. An L SHAPED STREET has its origin in an intersection with UPPER LOOP ROAD and terminates at MAIN STREET . Finally CIRCLE DRIVE intersects at two spaces with UPPER LOOP Road and encloses at least one landmark building or locale.

It should be noted that although each street or road on the game board comprises a specific number of spaces the depictions in the drawing Figures are exemplary only such that more or fewer spaces could be included in each street without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention.

As can be readily ascertained from the drawing Figures a plurality of spaces throughout game board are designated as PARKING AREA spaces shown generally as cross hatched on game board . Each PARKING AREA space has associated therewith a COLLECT TOKEN space . Accordingly game board includes seventeen 17 PARKING AREA spaces and seventeen 17 COLLECT TOKEN spaces to which each player must advance prior to winning the game .

The present invention further comprises a plurality of color coded tokens shown in the colors thereof corresponding to the colors of game pieces . There are 17 tokens of each individual color one for each COLLECT TOKEN space. Prior to game play one token of each color is positioned on or proximate each COLLECT TOKEN space awaiting the player of the corresponding color to retrieve them during play. Tokens may be formed in a wide variety of shapes and sizes for game play including but not limited to flat circular tokens that are easily placed on Collect Token spaces.

Several other types of board spaces are employed in the present invention including a plurality of GO spaces and a plurality of PARK spaces . In one embodiment of the invention GO spaces are green and PARK spaces are orange or red in color as designated in the drawing Figures by the letters G and O respectively. This color coded PARK and GO space layout assists in game play for youngsters who are taught from a very young age that a green traffic light corresponds with GO while red or orange corresponds with STOP or in this case PARK. 

Game board further comprises a plurality of buildings and landmarks situated in various locations around game board . As shown in drawing for example the game board of the present invention may be configured to place various buildings and landmarks in different locations thereby permitting players to design their own town each time the game is played. The buildings and landmarks used in game include an AIRPORT a BAKERY a CHURCH a CITY HALL a DENTIST OFFICE a DOCTOR S OFFICE a FIRE STATION a GAS STATION a HOSPITAL a LIBRARY a MALL a PARK a PET SHOP a POLICE STATION a RESTAURANT a SCHOOL a SUPERMARKET and a ZOO. Each of these landmarks is situated proximate a COLLECT TOKEN space with the exception of one landmark which is situated proximate the WINNER space . As seen in the drawing Figures CITY HALL has been chosen to be positioned proximate the WINNER SPACE although any landmark could be employed for this purpose.

As seen in a plurality of fanciful and humorous banners are included that may be used to label the various landmarks among them the CHERUB CHURCH the PLAIN PLANE AIRPORT and the TOO COOL SCHOOL . These banners complement the overall appearance of the game board as well as lend a whimsical feel to the town. Finally a DIRECTIONAL SYMBOL is located in the upper left hand corner of game board as shown in .

Game board further comprises a PARK CARD space and a GO card space on which are positioned a plurality of PARK and GO CARD as shown in . When a player lands on a GO space that player is required to select a GO CARD from the top of the deck and follow the instructions printed thereon. Each of the GO CARDS includes a humorous rhyme and or action that a player must follow. Generally the GO CARDS are associated with a player s advancement through the game as the instructions printed thereon permit a player to take an action that is generally favorable to advancing through and winning the game.

Additionally and in accordance with one embodiment of the instant invention each GO CARD includes a rebus associated with the board location to which the card s instructions pertain. The rebus on each GO CARD enables young children to understand what the GO CARD is instructing them to do without the necessity of having reading skills since they may advance to the area of the game board indicated by the rebus. The GO CARDS may be generally green on one side thereof to correspond to the GO spaces on game board . Exemplary GO CARD instructions are shown in .

Similarly and as shown in and a plurality of PARK CARDS have a large PARK indicia on one side thereof and printed instructions and rebus on the other side thereof. The PARK CARDS may be colored orange or red to correspond generally to the red or orange PARK spaces on game board . PARK CARDS generally delay or deter a player from advancing in the game. The instructions on PARK CARDS rhyme and are humorous in nature. Exemplary PARK CARD instructions are depicted in .

A plurality of fanciful and colorful ornamentations and rebus are provided for the instant invention including but not limited to trees airplanes school buses police cars and fire trucks . These ornamentations may be placed in a variety of locations around game board as desired by the players to enhance the board appearance. Finally a pair of dice is provided shown in which the players throw or roll in turn to determine the number of spaces to advance.

When playing the game two to four players begin by each player in turn rolling the dice to see which player sets off on the town s roads first. The player with the high roll begins first and each successive player follows the high rolling player in clockwise order around the game board. In the event of a tie the players who are tied simply roll again until an outcome is determined. The player beginning first selects the color coded game piece of his or her choice locates the matching START space on game board and places the game piece there prior to beginning play. Similarly each player in turn advancing clockwise around the game board selects a color coded game piece and places that piece on the corresponding color coded START space .

Also prior to beginning game play each player also places one TOKEN of the color corresponding to that player s game piece on or near each landmark associated with a COLLECT TOKEN space which will eventually be collected as the player advances through the game. No TOKEN is placed on the WINNER space shown in as proximate CITY HALL on MAIN STREET. Additionally the PARK and GO cards are placed face down in their respective spaces and in preparation for game play.

The ultimate objective of the game as discussed briefly herein above is to be the first player to visit each landmark location collect a TOKEN therefrom and advance to the WINNER space ahead of the other players. To that end play is initiated when the first player rolls the dice to determine the number of spaces to move the game piece . The player must make strategic decisions during the course of play to determine the most efficient route to take through the game based upon proximity to the target COLLECT TOKEN spaces as well as the intervening GO and PARK spaces along the way. When a player lands on a COLLECT TOKEN space they are entitled to take a token corresponding to the color of their game piece. The roll of the dice is not required to enable a player to move the exact number of spaces necessary to land exactly on the COLLECT TOKEN space but must be sufficient to enable the game piece to reach the COLLECT TOKEN space . Once the player collects their TOKEN their turn is over and play moves to the next player clockwise around the game board. Any remaining number of moves left from that dice roll do not carry over to that player s next turn.

If the dice roll enables a player to land exactly on a green GO space then that player must select a corresponding GO card from the top of the stack and follow the direction thereon. Similarly if the dice roll enables a player to land exactly on an orange PARK space then that player must select a corresponding PARK card from the top of the stack and follow those directions. Once used the PARK and GO cards are placed on the bottom of their respective stacks. In the event that the instructions on the PARK or GO card require a player to move their game piece to another green GO or orange PARK space the player is not entitled to select another card at that point. Rather their turn is over and they must wait until the other players take a turn to continue. If the PARK or GO card instructs a player to advance to a specific COLLECT TOKEN space they must advance their game piece to that space even if they already have the TOKEN corresponding to that space.

Once a player collects each TOKEN of his or her color they must then advance to the WINNER space at CITY HALL to win the game. It should be noted that a player need not make a roll of the dice that causes them to land exactly on the WINNER space . The roll only needs to be sufficient to advance them to the WINNER space to win the game. In an alternative embodiment of the present invention the first player to play can at their sole discretion decide to declare DOUBLES play throughout the game. In this event whenever a player rolls a double number with the dice they are entitled to a second turn after their first is completed.

In a yet further embodiment of the present invention the landmark buildings locales and ornamentations included with the game board of the present invention are provided separately from game board and are constructed of a foam or plastic material rather than printed on the game board as is common in prior art board games. The landmark buildings may include various combinations of building bases and roofs all of varying colors and fanciful patterns thereby enabling players to construct a unique town in which the game is played.

Furthermore a plurality of board ornamentations or decorations that may be comprised of foam or plastic material are included with the instant invention that permit players to exercise their creativity in placing the ornamentations on game board . In one embodiment of the present invention the buildings and ornamentations are constructed of a material that enables electrostatic adhesion to the game board to enable the various buildings and ornamentations to remain in place if game board is bumped or jostled.

As best shown in in this embodiment of the invention a game board may be provided that includes only the roads and the COLLECT TOKEN spaces and WINNER spaces integral thereto. The players may then construct the various buildings and place ornamentations around the game board to complete the playing surface . depicts a game board having a plurality of constructed buildings placed at varying locations along the board . Note that CITY HALL remains proximate the WINNER space on MAIN STREET . As seen in many of the buildings placed around the game board have a rebus thereon that enables younger players to engage in game play since they can easily recognize the landmark to which they must advance or retreat or on which they must remain according to the instructions on the PARK and GO CARDS.

Additionally depict the game board construction of with additional ornamentations placed thereon. Ornamentations that may be employed according to the players imagination in this embodiment of the present invention include but are not limited to money trees lollipop trees trees of knowledge ordinary green trees a variety of animals such as monkeys lions dogs giraffes bears snakes a flag such as an American flag or state flag and a variety of conveyances such as airplanes helicopters police cars fire trucks and school buses.

Finally a playground or ball field ornament may be provided to complement and enhance the park. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that a wide variety of ornamental symbols may be employed with the game of the present invention. The ultimate configuration of game board in this embodiment of the invention is limited only by the imaginations and cooperative efforts of the players.

While the present invention has been shown and described herein in what are considered to be the preferred embodiments thereof illustrating the results and advantages over the prior art obtained through the present invention the invention is not limited to those specific embodiments. Thus the forms of the invention shown and described herein are to be taken as illustrative only and other embodiments may be selected without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the claims appended hereto.

