---

title: Diagnostic method and products useful therein
abstract: A method for simultaneous detection and identification of and , in a single real time PCR assay using species-specific primers and Taqman MGB probes. Also, a kit for the diagnosis of bacterial bioterrorism agents. In addition, an infection-free control plasmid to verify the result of the real time PCR analysis method.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07960106&OS=07960106&RS=07960106
owner: The Finnish Defence Forces
number: 07960106
owner_city: Helsinki
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20061206
---
The present invention relates to a method and means useful therein for a simultaneous detection and identification of bacterial species that would likely be used as bioterrorism agents. More particularly the present invention relates to the simultaneous detection of the presence or absence of and in a single real time PCR assay. The invention also relates to species specific primers and Taqman MGB probes useful in the method of the invention. The invention further relates to a kit for use in the diagnosis of bacterial bioterrorism agents. In addition the invention further relates to an infection free control plasmid to verify the result of the real time PCR analysis method of the invention.

The Centres for Disease Control and Prevention CDC in United States classifies the biological agents that can possibly be used in a bioterrorist attack into three categories A B and C. According to the CDC category A organisms are considered to pose the greatest risk to public safety. Category A organisms spread easily and the prevention of these agents requires rapid action. Furthermore the protection against these agents requires large investments from the public health care. Category A agents consist of several viruses and three bacterial species and which are the causative agents of anthrax plague and tularemia respectively.

The use of biological weapons does not necessarily appear instantly since the incubation time of the organisms in the recipients can be several days even weeks. It is important to develop diagnostic methods that allow a rapid diagnosis because after the onset of clinical symptoms the clinical response to antimicrobial treatment is significantly reduced. Therefore rapid and effective detection of exposure to these pathogens is essential for the initiation of prophylactic treatment before the onset of symptoms. In addition to antimicrobial treatment prophylactic treatment includes e.g. immunization with vaccines.

The conventional methods for the detection of and include the use of microbiological cultures and enzymatic chemical and immunological assays. The classical microbiological diagnostic methods are often time consuming and the cultivations can take several days. The need of additional enrichment tests may additionally slow down the procedure as the pathogens must be distinguished from other closely related species. Furthermore the cultivation and enrichment of bacterial species may pose a health risk for laboratory personnel working in e.g. a deployable field laboratory. Thus rapid and accurate assays using molecular amplification technologies for the microbiological detection and identification of and are essential to ensure proper medical intervention in the case of a suspected intentional release.

The most suitable microbiological tests for diagnosis of anthrax have been designed for blood culture lumbar puncture or abscesses in which case the samples are cultured for 1 day and subsequently further identified. In addition fluorescent antibody assays are available for rapid detection of anthrax and a result can be obtained in few hours. However the result needs to be confirmed with alternative methods like PCR because the specificity of these assays is not 100 reliable. WO 2004070001 discloses a hybridization based method for detecting nucleic acid in a sample. The method is based on two detection probes specific for genetic material contained on the pXO1 and pXO2 plasmids. The test is specific and reliable however the hybridization technique used sets certain requirements for the laboratory work especially if bacterial strains need to be cultured under the field conditions. Furthermore the analysis is time consuming.

Traditional methods for the identification of plague have several drawbacks. grows on general nutrient rich media but its growth rate is slower than that of most other bacteria. Therefore its presence may be masked by organisms that replicate faster. Furthermore the characteristic bipolar staining of cells is not an exclusive feature limited to spp. enteric bacteria and other gram negative organisms particularly spp. can exhibit the same characteristics in staining. Immunological tests for the diagnosis of may exhibit cross reactivity and therefore are not fully reliable.

Polymerase chain reaction PCR analyses have been developed as alternatives for the classical microbiological methods. The traditional PCR is based on end point analytics wherein the amplified genetic material can only be inspected with a gel electrophoresis apparatus after the PCR reaction. A series of positive and negative PCR controls is needed to ensure the result and to eliminate the possibility of contamination during the PCR process.

A real time PCR analysis with specific probes and primers designed for the target gene enables the detection of the PCR reactions already during the reaction. The real time PCR offers several advantages for the analysis of biological agents that may be used in a bioterrorist attack. First the real time PCR is rapid which is of primary importance in the case of both unintentional and deliberate release of such biological agents. Second the realtime PCR suits for sensitive and specific pathogen detection because it is performed in hermetically sealed wells which greatly reduces the risk of cross contamination thereby diminishing the chance of false positive results. Third the real time PCR does not require post PCR analysis.

Several studies disclose the use of a real time PCR assay for the analysis of isolated bacterial organisms that can be used in a bioterrorist attack. Chase C. J. et al. 2005 Clin Chem 51 10 1778 1785 describe real time PCR assays targeting a unique chromosomal sequence of . The study indicates that by a real time PCR assay it is possible to distinguish from other species and from the closely related . Bell C. A. et al. 2002 J Clin Microbiol 40 2897 2902 discloses a rapid cycle real time PCR detection assay utilizing the LightCycler instrument Roche Applied Science Indianapolis for cultured isolates of . Emanuel P. A. et al. 2003 J Clin Microbiol 41 689 693 disclose the detection of within infected mouse tissues by using a hand held thermocycler and compare that to a real time PCR analysis of tissue samples. However none of these publications disclose a simultaneous detection of more than one pathogen species using a real time PCR based method.

In spite of the recognized and obvious advantages of a simultaneous analysis of more than one bacterial pathogen that could be used as bioterrorism agents no such analysis that would be specific and sensitive enough has so far been developed.

Varma Basil et al. 2004 Clin Chem 50 6 1060 1063 describe a real time PCR assay that simultaneously detects four bacterial agents that could be used in bioterrorism. This study is based on molecular beacons that bind to amplicons generated from and . The analysis takes advantage of 16S rRNA gene sequences which are highly conserved among bacteria. With the described assay a simultaneous detection of the four pathogens was possible. However the assay used cross reacted strongly with 4 control bacterial species present in the samples. Such an assay would not be acceptable since false positive results in the diagnosis of category A agents would lead to significant economical losses and compromise the trust of the general public to the authorities.

Since the detection of Category A agents has to be absolutely accurate rapid and reliable further methods for efficient microbial detection of category A agents are still needed.

To overcome the drawbacks of the prior art assays a new approach was developed. While the real time PCR assay described by Varma Basil et al. supra utilizes conserved 16S rRNA gene sequences and molecular beacons the present invention takes advantage of species specific gene or plasmid sequences and the optimization of the concentrations of the primers and probes derived from these species specific gene or plasmid sequences to provide a highly sensitive PCR reaction using identical temperature parameters. Such a PCR reaction allows a simultaneous detection of bacterial category A pathogens which could be used as bioweapons or bioterrorism agents.

Accordingly an object of the present invention is to provide novel methods and means for a simultaneous detection and identification of bacterial species that would likely be used as bioterrorism agents.

Another object of the invention is to provide novel methods and means by which it is possible to detect and identify simultaneously bacterial species that would likely be used as bioterrorism agents substantially more rapidly than has been previously possible whereby correct and effective anti microbial therapy or prophylaxis to the affected subjects and as importantly the necessary measures to prevent further spreading of the disease and the agents can be initiated at an earlier stage than before.

A further object of the invention is to provide means and methods that are useful in detection and identification of bacterial species that would likely be used as bioterrorism agents the means and methods being reliable sensitive and being capable of identifying specifically only the desired bacterial species.

The present invention relates to a method for simultaneously detecting the presence or absence of bacterial species and in a single real time PCR assay run using Taqman MGB probes and species specific primers wherein

a the forward and reverse primers for have the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 1 and 2 respectively derived from the pagA gene and SEQ ID NOS 4 and 5 respectively derived from the capB gene 

b the forward and reverse primers for have the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 7 and 8 respectively derived from the pla gene and

c the forward and reverse primers for have the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 10 and 11 respectively derived from the 23 kDa gene and

wherein the concentrations of said forward primers and said reverse primers are optimized in the range of 50 900 nM under the same temperature parameters.

The specific Taqman MGB probes used in the method of the invention are for the sequence of SEQ ID NO 3 derived from the pagA gene and the sequence of SEQ ID NO 6 derived from the capB gene for the sequence of SEQ ID NO 9 derived from the pla gene and for the sequence of SEQ ID NO 12 derived from the 23 kDa gene.

In one embodiment of the method of the invention a multiplex PCR format is used wherein the reactions are performed in a single assay tube using differently labelled Taqman MGB probes.

The present invention also relates to novel species specific primers useful in the method of the invention said species specific primers having the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 1 and 2 derived from the pagA gene SEQ ID NOS 4 and 5 derived from the capB gene SEQ ID NOS 7 and 8 derived from the pla gene and SEQ ID NOS 10 and 11 derived from the 23 kDa gene and to their use in PCR based assays for the detection of and respectively.

The present invention further relates to novel Taqman MGB probes useful in the method of the invention said Taqman MGB probes having the sequences of SEQ ID NO 3 derived from the pagA gene SEQ ID NO 6 derived from the capB gene SEQ ID NO 9 derived from the pla gene and SEQ ID NO 12 derived from the 23 kDa gene and to their use in PCR based assays.

The present invention further relates to a diagnostic kit for use in the diagnosis of bacterial species that would likely be used as bioterrorism agents comprising

c internal positive controls and reagents required in the amplification hybridisation purification washing and or detection steps.

The present invention also relates to an infection risk free control plasmid comprising partial sequences of the pagA and capB genes having the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 21 and 22 respectively the pla gene having the sequence of SEQ ID NO 23 and the 23 kDa gene having the sequence of SEQ ID NO 24 and the appropriate promoter and regulatory sequences.

The present invention is based on studies which attempted to find more rapid and specific alternatives for the detection and diagnosis of biological agents that could be used in a bioterrorist attack. It was unexpectedly found that more than one of the category A bacterial species can be amplified and detected simultaneously in a specific and reliable manner using the real time PCR techniques. This was achieved by designing novel real time PCR primers and probes for and bacteria and adjusting the operating conditions for these species specific primer and probe sequences so that all have similar melting temperatures in the presence of perfectly complementary targets.

Specifically the present invention relates to a method for the simultaneous detection of the presence or absence of bacterial species and in a single real time PCR assay run using Taqman MGB probes and species specific primers wherein

a the forward and reverse primers for have the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 1 and 2 respectively derived from the pagA gene and SEQ ID NOS 4 and 5 respectively derived from the capB gene 

b the forward and reverse primers for have the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 7 and 8 respectively derived from the pla gene and

c the forward and reverse primers for have the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 10 and 11 respectively derived from the 23 kDa gene 

and wherein the concentrations of said forward primers and said reverse primers are optimized in the range of 50 900 nM under the same temperature parameters.

The specific Taqman MGB probes used in the method of the invention have the sequences of SEQ ID NO 3 derived from the pagA gene SEQ ID NO 6 derived from the capB gene SEQ ID NO 9 derived from the pla gene and SEQ ID NO 12 derived from the 23 kDa gene.

For the present purposes the expression simultaneously detecting means that a single real time PCR assay run is performed simultaneously for each bacteria either in separate reaction vessels such as wells or tubes or in a single reaction vessel with species specific primers and Taqman MGB probes. Preferably the run is performed in separate reaction vessels. However in one embodiment of the method of the invention a multiplex PCR format is used wherein the reactions are performed in a single assay tube using differently labelled Taqman MGB probes.

The present invention also relates to novel species specific primers useful in the method of the invention said species specific primers having the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 1 and 2 derived from the pagA gene the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 4 and 5 derived from the capB gene the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 7 and 8 derived from the pla gene and the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 10 and 11 derived from the 23 kDa gene and to their use in PCR based assays.

The present invention further relates to novel Taqman MGB probes that are utilized in the method of the invention said Taqman MGB probes having the sequences of SEQ ID NO 3 derived from the pagA gene SEQ ID NO 6 derived from the capB gene SEQ ID NO 9 derived from the pla gene or SEQ ID NO 12 derived from the 23 kDa gene and to their use in PCR based assays.

The present invention further relates to a diagnostic kit for use in the diagnosis of bacterial species that would likely be used as bioterrorism agents comprising

a species specific primers for and wherein the forward and reverse primers for have the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 1 and 2 derived from the pagA gene and SEQ ID NOS 4 and 5 derived from the capB gene the forward and reverse primers for have the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 7 and 8 derived from the pla gene and the forward and reverse primers for have the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 10 and 11 derived from the 23 kDa gene 

b specific Taqman MGB probes for and said Taqman MGB probe having the sequence of SEQ ID NO 3 derived from the pagA gene the sequence of SEQ ID NO 6 derived from the capB gene the sequence of SEQ ID NO 9 derived from the pla gene or the sequence of SEQ ID NO 12 derived from the 23 kDa gene and to their use in PCR based assays and optionally

c internal positive controls and reagents required in the amplification hybridisation purification washing and or detection steps.

The present invention also relates to an infection risk free control plasmid comprising partial sequences of pagA and capB genes having the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 21 and 22 respectively pla gene having the sequence of SEQ ID NO 23 and 23 kDa gene having the sequence of SEQ ID NO 24 and the appropriate promoter and regulatory sequences.

The primers and MGB probes of the present invention were designed so as to make the selected nucleic acid sequences as species specific as possible and to make them attach only to the corresponding DNA sequences of their target organisms. In the design of primers and probes the Primer Express ver. 2.0 software Applied Biosystems CA USA was used. The designed primer Taqman MGB probe combinations were based on sequences available from the NCBI public database.

In the design of novel primers and probes of the present invention the following criteria were used predicted cross reactivity with currently available GenBank sequences lack of primer dimer formation self annealing of nucleotide a 10 C. higher melting temperature of the probe than the primers no stretches of identical nucleotides more than four and no guanine at the 5 end of the probe. Additionally to prevent and minimize the possibility of non specificity caused by mutations in the target genes the size of the target sequences had to be as short as possible. The primers and probes of the invention were synthesized by Applied Biosystems Cheshire England .

Specifically for designing the specific forward primers pagF and capF SEQ ID NO 1 and SEQ ID NO 4 respectively and reverse primers pagR and capR SEQ ID NO 2 and SEQ ID NO 5 respectively and Taqman MGB probes pagR and capR SEQ ID NO 3 and SEQ ID NO 6 respectively the pagA gene GenBank accession no. M22589 and the capB gene GenBank accession no. M24150 of virulence plasmids pXO1 and pXO2 respectively were used. The pagA gene of plasmid pXO1 encodes for a protective antigen which is one of the three genes encoding the toxin complex. The capB gene is one of the three genes on plasmid pXO2 that are necessary for biosynthesis of the protective polypeptide capsule Hanna P. 1988 Curr. Top. Microbiol. Immunol. 225 13 35 . On the basis of design criteria nucleotides 3400 to 3488 of the pagA coding sequence and nucleotides 1106 to 1174 of the capB coding sequence provided the most sensitive target for the assay. Since plasmids pXO1 and pXO2 must both be present for a isolate to be virulent both pagA and capB genes were included in the assay. Apathogenic strains lacking either one or both plasmids have been isolated from the environment. The detection sites of the capB and pagA genes were designed to be only 68 and 84 base pairs respectively in length thus reducing the probability of mutations.

The primers and probe target the 23 kDa gene GenBank accession no. Y08861 which is an important factor in the intracellular growth of on macrophages. The Taqman MGB probe 23 kDaTM SEQ ID NO 12 was specifically designed but since the 23 kDa gene has successfully been used for detection in real time Taqman PCR assay known primers 23F and 23R SEQ ID NOS 10 and 11 could be used Versage J. L. et al. 2003 J Clin Microbiol 41 5492 5499 . Again the amplification target for the 23 kDa gene was short only 83 base pairs.

In general and as used in the present invention the term TaqMan probe refers to oligonucleotides that contain a fluorescent dye typically on the 5 base and a nonfluorescent quenching dye quencher typically on the 3 base. When irradiated the excited fluorescent dye transfers energy to the nearby quenching dye molecule rather than fluorescing resulting in a non fluorescent substrate. The term TaqMan MGB probe refers to a TaqMan probe conjugated with a minor groove binder MGB at the 3 end of the probe. MGB is tripeptide 1 2 dihydro 3H pyrrolo 3 2 e indole 7 carboxylate CDPI3 which binds to the minor groove of DNA with high affinity. Stabilizing van der Waals forces increase the melting temperature Tm of MGB probes without increasing probe length and thus enable the use of shorter probes than in normal Taqman real time PCR. Additionally the background fluorescence is quenched more efficiently by using the MGB probes. In the present invention TaqMan MGB probes Applied Biosystems were used. The species specific sequences of the designed probes were 15 to 21 nucleotides in length.

All real time PCR systems rely upon the detection and quantitation of a fluorescent reporter the signal of which increases in a direct proportion to the amount of the PCR product that is forming in a reaction. Such reporters can be hybridisation probes relying on fluorescence resonance energy transfer FRET for quantification. In the present invention any suitable fluorophores can be used in order to produce a fluorescent Taqman MGB probe. Suitable fluorescent labels include fluorescent labels such as FAM SYBR Green VIC JOE NED TAMRA Cy3 ROX Texas Red and Cy5 dyes. In the preferred embodiment of the present invention the fluorescent reporter dye at the 5 end of the probe is 6 carboxy fluorescein FAM and the 3 end the non fluorescent quencher is the one supplied by Applied Biosystems.

To allow efficient simultaneous detection of and using similar thermocycling profiles the concentrations of the primers and probes were optimized. The optimization experiments were based on ABI 7300 instrument manual Applied Biosystems 7300 Sequence Detection System Training course manual chapter 12 and performed as follows. Various concentrations of each of the primers and probes were tested in a matrix format so that concentrations of 50 300 or 900 nM of reverse primers were tested in combination with concentrations of 50 300 or 900 nM of forward primers. The probe concentrations were optimized by varying concentrations in the range of 50 250 nM. The optimal concentrations were chosen based on the lowest Ct earliest cycle threshold combined with the greatest end point fluorescence. The optimization of the concentrations allows the analysis of the three bacteria simultaneously rather than performing individual assays for each bacteria.

The optimal PCR conditions were for the assay 300 nM forward primer and 900 nM reverse primer for assay 50 nM forward primer and 300 nM reverse primer and for assay 300 nM forward primer and 900 nM reverse primer. The Taqman MGB probe concentration of 250 nM provided highly reproducible and sensitive assays and thus it was used in all assays.

In the practice of the invention the real time PCR analysis for the detection and identification of bacteria that cause anthrax tularemia or plague was performed using ABI 7300 thermocycler Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. USA . However as evident to persons skilled in the art the analysis could be performed on other fluorescence based thermocyclers which permit rapid cycling and simultaneous detection of the amplification product provided that the systems used can utilize the present assay reagents.

In the method of the present invention the sample to be analyzed can be a bacterial culture a tissue fragment a secretion sample such as a sputum or brush sample a blood sample a clinical sample from lumbar puncture or abscesses or another suitable sample obtained from a patient suspected of suffering of the infectious disease in question. The sample can also be an environmental sample such as an earth sample a paper sample or an air sample collected from the site to be examined or any other environmental sample from which nucleic acid can be isolated.

Because the primer pairs used in the method of the invention are very specific the analysis only requires small amounts of samples and could from suitable samples be analysed even without any preceding nucleic acid purification and isolation steps. Preferably however DNA is isolated from the sample to be analyzed with any conventional method such as with commercial DNA isolation kits e.g. MagNAPure LC System Roche High Pure PCR Template Preparation Kit Roche NucleoSpin BD Biosciences Clontech or QIAamp DNA Mini kit Qiagen or with conventional extraction. Commercial kits are preferably used because of their general availability rapidity repeatability and safety.

In the method of the present invention the reagents used in DNA amplification can be any reagents that are conventionally used for the amplification of DNA and are well known among the persons skilled in the art. Suitable and most easy to use is commercially available Taqman Universal PCR master mix Applied Biosystems containing dNUTP S MgCl2 reaction buffer AmpErase uracil N glycosylase UNG ROX passive reference and AmpliTaq Gold . However also different types of thermostable DNA polymerases and buffers thereto e.g. AmpliTaqLD DyNAzyme TaqPlus Precision and HotStartTaq nucleotides or pre prepared mixtures of nucleotides e.g. Sigma Applied Biosystems Amersham Biosystems MgCl2 whereby a product from the manufacturer of the Taq polymerase is generally used could be used.

A major advantage of the method of the invention is that the detection of bioterrorism agents and is very rapid as all three bacteria can be detected simultaneously. Before the present invention a successful detection of these bacteria by real time PRC had been done in three different analysis runs. Loiez C. et al. supra discloses detection of and Versage J. L. et al. supra discloses detection of by real time PCR however these methods cannot be used for the simultaneous detection of all three bacteria without the optimization of the PCR conditions as described in the present invention. WO 2005030991 and Charrel R. N. et al. 2004 BMC Microbiology 4 21 1 11 disclose a PCR based method for detecting the presence of a bacterial or viral DNA agent for bioterrorism. According to this method the fragments amplified by PCR from the bacterial DNA locate on pagA fopA and variolavirus hemagglutinin genes. In addition WO 2005030991 does not disclose the use of capB gene for the detection of . The method thus allows also detection of avirulent strains.

The method of invention is highly sensitive corresponding to 1 bacterial cell with all three Category A agents. The detection of is at least as sensitive as known from the prior art Bell C. A. et al. 2002 J Clin Microbiol 40 2897 2902 Ellerbrok H. H. et al. 2002 FEMS Microbiol Lett 214 51 59 Reif T. C. et al. 1994 Appl Environ Microbiol 60 1622 1625 . For the detection of the sensitivity of 0.1 genomic equivalents GE was achieved. The earlier studies have reported sensitivity of 5 GE Basti en M. et al. 2005 ASM Biodefence Research Meeting 2005 abstract . The sensitivity for the detection was 0.2 GE. The earlier studies have re ported sensitivity of approx 20 GE Chase C. J. et al. 2005 Clin Chem 51 1778 1785 .

As importantly the method of the invention is highly specific since none of closely related bacterial species are detected.

An additional advantage of the present invention is the rapidity it provides for the diagnosis of category A bacterial bioterrorism agents. An analytical turnaround time of less than 120 minutes post specimen processing is possible with the ABI 7300 96 plate assay of the invention. Extraction of DNA can be accomplished in 30 minutes using commercial kits. All reactions include internal positive controls which can be used in the assessment of inhibitorial factors in samples thus reducing the time for analysis. The total time for specimen processing and analysis is less than three hours.

The diagnostic kit of the present invention is designed for use in the diagnosis of bacterial species that would likely be used as bioterrorism agents. The kit comprises

a species specific primers for and wherein the forward and reverse primers for have the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 1 and 2 derived from the pagA gene and SEQ ID NOS 4 and 5 derived from the capB gene the forward and reverse primers for have the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 7 and 8 derived from the pla gene and the forward and reverse primers for have the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 10 and 11 derived from the 23 kDa gene 

b specific Taqman MGB probes for and said Taqman MGB probes having the sequence of SEQ ID NO 3 derived from the pagA gene the sequence of SEQ ID NO 6 derived from the capB gene the sequence of SEQ ID NO 9 derived from the pla gene or the sequences of SEQ ID NO 12 derived from the 23 kDa gene and to their use in PCR based assays and optionally

c internal positive controls and reagents required in the amplification hybridisation purification washing and or detection steps.

To verify the positive result of the real time PCR analysis method of the invention an infection risk free control plasmid can be constructed. The control plasmid comprises partial sequences of the pagA and capB genes having the sequences of SEQ ID NOS 21 and 22 respectively the pla gene having the sequence of SEQ ID NO 23 and the 23 kDa gene having the sequence of SEQ ID NO 24 Table 3 and the appropriate promoter replication and regulatory sequences. The gene regions of the pagA and capB genes the pla gene and the 23 kDa gene are amplified in a traditional PCR using primers that include sites for the restrictions enzymes as shown in Table 2. The amplified gene regions are separately cloned to the vector pUC19 multiple cloning sites. Subsequently the four different plasmids are combined by restriction and ligation reactions resulting in a non infectious plasmid which contains all four gene regions. The plasmid can thus be used as a positive control for all the primers of the invention.

A major advantage of the infection risk free control plasmid of the invention is that by using this plasmid the verification of the PCR results of bioterrorism agents and is very specific and more sensitive in comparison to the control plasmids of the prior art WO 2005030991 and Charrel R. N. et al. 2004 BMC Microbiology 4 21 1 11 .

It will be obvious to a person skilled in the art that as the technology advances the inventive concept can be implemented in various ways. The invention and its embodiments are not limited to the examples described below but may vary within the scope of the claims.

The design of primer Taqman MGB probe combinations was based on the sequences of and available from the NCBI public database http www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov blast . The primer and probe sequences were selected based on the following criteria predicted cross reactivity with currently available GenBank sequences lack of primer dimer formation self annealing of nucleotide a 10 C. higher melting temperature of the probe than primers no stretches of identical nucleotides than four and no guanine at the 5 end of the probe. The design was done using the Primer Express ver. 2.0 software Applied Biosystems CA USA .

The fluorescent reporter dye conjugated at the 5 end of the Taqman MGB probe was a 6 carboxy fluorescein FAM and in the 3 end a non fluorescent quencher Applied Biosystems CA USA .

For the PCR analysis DNA was isolated from the bacterial strains and isolates listed in . The strains 1 20 and Y1 Y48 were from the collections of Haartman Institute Division of Bacteriology and Immunology Helsinki Finland. Bacterial strains E1 E18 were from the National Veterinary and Food Research Institute University of Helsinki Finland. All isolates 1 20 and E1 E18 and positive controls Sterne 7702 ATCC 4229 EV76 c and LVS strains were grown according to conventional microbiological methods. Strains 34 42 were acquired from DSMZ Braunschweig Germany and grown according to the DSMZ instructions except for and that were received as actively growing cultures.

All the bacterial isolates were purified using the automated MagNAPure LC System Basel Switzerland according to the manufacturers LC DNA Isolation Kit III manual. The control strains of and were grown overnight and divided into aliquots followed by purification with the QiaAmp DNA miniKit Qiagen Hilden Germany . samples were received as purified DNA. Total DNA extracted from the bacterial isolates was measured with the Genequant RNA DNA calculator BioChrom Ltd Cambridge UK .

A real time PCR analysis was performed for the isolated DNA samples. The real time PCR reaction mixture consisted of 2.5 l DNA sample 12.5 l 2 Taqman Universal PCR master mix Applied Biosystems containing dNUTP S MgCl2 reaction buffer AmpErase uracil N glycosylase UNG ROX passive reference and AmpliTaq Gold . Additionally 2.5 l of IPC mix and 0.5 l IPC synthetic DNA were used. All assays were run in a final volume of 25 l.

The concentrations of the primers and probes Example 1 were optimized. The optimization experiments were based on ABI 7300 instrument manual Applied Biosystems 7300 Sequence Detection System Training course manual chapter 12 and performed as follows. Various concentrations of each of the primers and probes were tested in a matrix format so that concentrations of 50 300 or 900 nM of reverse primers were tested in combination with concentrations of 50 300 or 900 nM of forward primers. The concentrations of the probes were optimized by varying concentrations in the range of 50 250 nM. The optimal concentrations were chosen based on the lowest Ct earliest cycle threshold combined with the greatest end point fluorescence.

The optimized PCR conditions for the assay were the following 300 nM forward primer 900 nM reverse primer and 250 nM of fluorescence labelled Taqman probe. strains Sterne 7702 pXO1 pXO2 and ATCC 4229 pXO1 pXO2 were used as positive controls. The PCR reactions for contained 50 nM forward primer 300 nM reverse primer and 250 nM of fluorescence labelled Taqman probe. strain EV76 c was used as a positive control. In the assays 300 nM forward primer 900 nM reverse primer and 250 nM of fluorescence labelled Taqman probe were used. LVS strain was used as a positive control. The following control reactions were included in all diagnostic runs in the No Amplification Controls NAC the template was substituted with Internal Positive Control IPC Blocker and in No Template Controls NTC with water. Both controls were replicated six times.

The real time PCR analysis was performed simultaneously for and in a 96 plate assay with the ABI 7300 thermocycler Applied Biosystems using the following parameters 2 min at 50 C. 10 min at 95 C. 40 cycles of 15 s at 95 C. and 1 min at 60 C. The obtained fluorescence data was analyzed with the Sequence Detector software Applied Biosystems .

In order to determinate the range of linearity the lower limit of detection and intra assay variation three replicates of nine 10 fold dilutions of and DNA in TE buffer Tris 10 mM EDTA 1 mM adjusted to ph 8.0 with HCl containing approximately 10 ng to 0.1 fg DNA were analyzed by the method of Example 2. Standard graphs of the Ct values were compiled and the correlation coefficients were calculated. All R2 values were above 0.99 and slopes were near 3.3 thus making PCR amplification effiency highly successful.

The sensitivity of the real time PCR analysis of the invention for pagA gene and capB gene was 1 fg and 10 fg respectively for pla gene 0.1 fg and for 23 kDa gene sensitivity was 0.1 fg of total DNA. The sensitivity of the method of invention corresponds to 1 bacterial cell with all three category A agents.

For assessing the specificity of the real time PCR assay of the invention the clinical and environmental samples Table 1 were analyzed to represent the overall diversity of bacterial phylogenetic tree. The main lines of bacterial phylogenetic tree were excluded based on the absence of their habitat at normal sample collection sites e.g. the deep sea thermophilic bacteria. From each branch of the tree one species was chosen to represent the whole group.

The real time PCR analysis was performed as described in Example 2. At least 1 ng of total DNA was loaded per reaction to detect possible cross reaction with non specific targets. All samples were analyzed in duplicate.

Detectable amplification was observed only from control strains of and Sterne 7702 ATCC 4229 LVS EV76 c and the specific clinical samples see Example 4 . Non specific amplification products were not detected. Furthermore internal positive con trots IPC s were successfully amplified in all assays and thus no samples were discarded from analysis or had to be re run based on possible inhibitorial factors.

Clinical animal tissue samples from a cow with anthrax and a hare with tularemia were received from the National Veterinary and Food Research Institute University of Helsinki and Oulu respectively.

DNA from formaldehyde fixed infected cow tissue 20 mg and paraffin embedded hare tissue 10 40 m were purified with the QiaAmp DNA miniKit Qiagen Hilden Germany as suggested by the manufacturer.

Three separate DNA isolations were made from the samples and the samples were analysed on duplicate by the real time PCR assay as described in Example 2.

The Ct values of these samples ranged from 16 20 and 21 22 Ct s respectively thus giving strong positive signals at early stages of the run.

Additionally the clinical isolates samples no. 21 30 from the collections of Haartman Institute Division of Bacteriology and Immunology Helsinki Finland were analysed by the real time PCR assay as described in Example 2. As expected all samples gave a positive signal. The results are shown in .

For the real time PCR analysis method a control plasmid to be used without a risk of infection is constructed by inserting the gene regions of the pagA and capB genes having sequences of SEQ ID NOS 21 and 22 respectively the pla gene having the sequence of SEQ ID NO 23 and the 23 kDa gene having the sequence of SEQ ID NO 24 shown in Table 3 into a plasmid. The gene regions are amplified in a traditional PCR using species specific primers that include sites for the restrictions enzymes Table 2 . The amplified gene regions are separately cloned to the vector pUC19 multiple cloning site. Subsequently the four different plasmids are combined by restriction and ligation reactions according to methods commonly used in molecular biology. The resulting plasmid is a non infectious plasmid which contains all four gene regions. The plasmid can thus be used as a positive control for all the primers of the invention.

