---

title: Method, system and computer code for content based web advertising
abstract: An internet target marketing system, method, and computer program for distributing online advertising to viewers based upon the viewers' interests is provided. The system, method, and computer program may involve identifying one or more document-related concepts derived from analysis of content of a web document capable of being displayed to the user, identifying one or more advertisement-related concepts relevant to an advertising, comparing the one or more document-related concepts to the one or more advertising-related concepts to determine a relevance, and selecting the advertising based on the relevance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08620747&OS=08620747&RS=08620747
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 08620747
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20060105
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 936 782 filed Sep. 7 2004 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 483 092 filed Jan. 14 2000 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 995 616 filed Dec. 22 1997 all of which are incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to online advertising management and more particularly to techniques for targeting information in the Internet environment. Specific embodiments can target advertising and other marketing information.

With the rapid development of electronic commerce the number of Internet companies offering free services with the goal of creating a customer base for webadvertising has increased dramatically. Typically Internet companies host web pages using a portal a web page with links to many other web pages. Portals contain web advertisements. Companies advertising on the portal pay a royalty to the portal provider. Examples of popular portals include MYYAHOO MYEXCITE NETSCAPE NETCENTER and HOTMAIL.

While there are perceived advantages to using web portals further efficiencies can be had. For example web portals are unable to provide advertising to the user once the user exits the realm of web pages controlled by the portal. Internet service providers ISPs such as America On Line AOL have more control over the advertising reaching their subscribers because the ISPs retain control over pages served to the user. However to continue to provide advertising on every web page served to a user currently requires reformatting the web page or popping up annoying windows with advertisements in them.

What is needed is a technique for targeting advertising to online users without compromising user privacy.

According to the present invention an internet target marketing system method and computer program for distributing online advertising to viewers based upon the viewers interests is provided. Specific embodiments according to the present invention can use an n way matching of user s concepts of interest advertiser s concepts and concepts contained in a currently viewed document to target advertising to the viewer of the current document. Some embodiments can generate a contextually sensitive advertisement for each page viewed in a browser thereby associating an advertisement with every page in a document. Specific embodiments can associate advertising with documents that are substantially free of embedded advertisements for example. Alternative embodiments can include embedded advertising however.

In a specific embodiment according to the present invention a method for targeting advertising to a user based upon content of an active document is provided. An active document can be one that is presently displayed to a user for example. However in some embodiments an active document can be one that is being processed by a daemon or background process. The method includes analyzing at least one document to identify discussion of information corresponding to one or more user selectable concepts of interest. This analysis can provide a user concept relevance which can comprise a measure of relevance of the document to one or more concepts defined by the user. The method can also include analyzing the document to identify discussion of information corresponding to one or more advertiser selectable concepts of interest. This analysis can provide an advertiser concept relevance which can comprise a measure of relevance of the document to one or more concepts defined by the advertiser. The method can also include comparing the user concept relevance and the advertiser concept relevance for the document to determine an overall relevance. Selecting advertising having a particular overall relevance can also be part of the method. The particular relevance can be the greatest relevance least relevance or within a range of greatest or least relevance for example. The method can also include displaying the advertisement selected to a user.

In another embodiment according to the present invention a system for targeting advertising to a user based upon content of one or more documents displayed to the user is provided. The system comprises a profile content recognizer that analyzes contents of documents for information corresponding to one or more user selectable concepts. The profile content recognizer provides an output of concepts contained in the document that correspond to the one or more user selectable concepts. The system also comprises an advertising content recognizer that analyzes content of documents for information corresponding to one or more advertiser selectable concepts. A comparator compares the output from the profile content recognizer and the output from the advertising content recognizer and selects from a plurality of stored advertisements ones that are relevant to the information contained in the documents based upon the comparison.

In a further embodiment according to the present invention a computer program product for targeting advertising to users based upon a content of one or more documents displayed to the user comprises code for analyzing the documents to identify discussion of information corresponding to one or more user selectable concepts of interest is provided. This code can provide a user concept relevance indication which can comprise a measure of relevance of the document to one or more concepts defined by the user. Code for analyzing the documents to identify discussion of information corresponding to one or more advertiser selectable concepts of interest is provided. This code can provide an advertiser concept relevance indication which can comprise a measure of relevance of the document to one or more concepts defined by the advertiser. Code for comparing the user concept relevance and the advertiser concept relevance for the document in order to determine an overall relevance is also part of the product. Code for selecting advertising having a particular overall relevance and a computer readable storage medium for holding the codes are also part of the product. The particular relevance can be the greatest relevance least relevance or within a range of greatest or least relevance for example.

In a yet further embodiment according to the present invention a method for automatically associating advertising objects with web objects is provided. The method includes analyzing one or more web objects to identify information corresponding to at least one first concept of interest and analyzing the one or more web objects to identify information corresponding to at least one second concept of interest. Determining a relevance between the first concepts of interest and the second concepts of interest can also be part of the method. The method can also include associating the one or more web objects with the one or more advertising objects based upon the relevance.

In a still further embodiment according to the present invention a computer program product for automatically associating advertising objects with web objects is provided. Code for analyzing one or more web objects to identify information corresponding to at least one first concept of interest can be part of the product. Code for analyzing the one or more web objects to identify information corresponding to at least one second concept of interest can also be part of the product. The product can also include code for determining a relevance between the first concept of interest and the second concept of interest. Code for associating the one or more web objects with the one or more advertising objects based upon relevance and a computer readable storage medium for holding the codes can also be part of the product.

Numerous benefits are achieved by way of the present invention over conventional techniques. The present invention can provide a way to target advertising relevant to the viewer s current interests along with web pages on a single screen. Embodiments according to the present invention can achieve more specific targeting than techniques known in the art. For example some embodiments can detect that one user s definition of sports includes hunting and fishing while another user s idea of sports may include marathon running. Such embodiments can provide better targeting of advertisements than conventional techniques. Some embodiments according to the present invention can provide better protection of viewers privacy than conventional web browser user interfaces. Embodiments according to the invention can provide more information to the user than known techniques. Many embodiments according to the invention will enhance the user s web browsing experience by providing indication of which links are likely to be of most interest. These and other benefits are described throughout the present specification.

A further understanding of the nature and advantages of the inventions herein may be realized by reference to the remaining portions of the specification and the attached drawings.

According to the present invention an interest profile based target marketing system method and computer program for distributing online advertising to viewers based upon the viewers interests is provided. An embodiment according to the present invention has been reduced to practice under the name Reader s Helper .

Representative embodiments according to the present invention provide one or more marketing information areas on a web browser for example. The marketing information areas can provide viewers access to advertising public service information and the like. The marketing information display area can provide consistent unobtrusive access to marketing information. Embodiments according to the present invention are operable with many of a wide variety of web browsers known to those of ordinary skill in the art such as web browsers provided by NEOPLANET a company with headquarters in Phoeniz Ariz. www.neoplanet.com MICROSOFT CORPORATION s Internet Explorer NETSCAPE Navigator and the like. The marketing information display area can provide a location for advertising and the like which does not interfere with the document s content.

Targeted advertising refers to the organized exposure of marketing information to persons determined to be most likely to buy the product or service being advertised. Targeting can be performed based upon persons demographic and other information for example. The determination is made based upon a profile for a particular person developed from information about the person s usage of products or services and the like. For example information about the web pages a person visits can be gathered and analyzed to provide a profile of the person s interests and the like. Web advertisement objects likely to appeal to a particular user can be displayed in marketing information area of the user s browser. In another embodiment marketing information can be distributed based upon information about the web channels a person uses. In one embodiment users who view web pages and use channels via a particular portal provide information that can be used to target advertising using the marketing information area in the user s browser. Embodiments can analyze the Uniform Resource Locators URLs associated with the web pages browsed by the user. Other embodiments can analyze the content of the web pages themselves to gather information about the user s interests.

It is a noteworthy aspect of embodiments according to the present invention that advertisers can update their corresponding marketing information substantially independently of interfering with the clients viewing of the information. In a presently preferable embodiment advertisers can also monitor usage of their marketing information by the clients by for example counting the hits on a particular web object corresponding to the advertiser s marketing information to indicate usage. In some embodiments usage statistics can be provided by server .

In a specific embodiment the user s personal profile can be used to annotate specific portions of a document displayed to the user that are of a greater interest to the user as defined by the user s chosen concepts of interest in the personal profile. In some specific embodiments the annotated phrases in the portion of the document being viewed and or all phrases in the portion of the document being viewed can be used to pinpoint what a user might be interested in. For example the user may be viewing a portion of a document which contains many highlighted keywords related to the user s concepts of interest. The user can be sufficiently interested in such a document portion to closely read the contents. Therefore advertising can be targeted based upon the information that the user is currently reading. In this case the highlighted words can be compared with the advertising concepts in order to determine an appropriate advertisement to display at that time. Such embodiments can provide better advertising for a user as the user reads a document and can change the advertisement being displayed as the user scrolls through the document.

In a preferred embodiment computer system includes a Pentium class based computer running Windows NT operating system by Microsoft Corporation. However the method is easily adapted to other operating systems and architectures by those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Mouse may have one or more buttons such as buttons . Cabinet houses familiar computer components such as disk drives a processor storage means etc. As used in this specification storage means includes any storage device used in connection with a computer system such as disk drives magnetic tape solid state memory bubble memory etc. Cabinet may include additional hardware such as input output I O interface cards for connecting computer system to external devices such as a scanner external storage other computers or additional peripherals.

In a presently preferable embodiment a concept indicator can be used to provide an indication of relevance of the content of a document to one or more concepts in conjunction with a web browser that can provide one or more display areas for documents and marketing information. The concept indicator illustrates the results of analyzing documents the user browses for content relevant to the user selectable concepts of interest. A value is assigned based upon a determined likelihood that the document is of interest to the user. In a presently preferable embodiment key phrases used throughout a document are automatically highlighted according to their relevance to the user s selectable concepts of interest so that the user can find relevant information more efficiently. Each user defined concept of interest can include a collection of key phrases that describe important features in documents about that concept. The concept indicator can provide an indication to a user whether a document is about the concept and worth reading. Concept indicators are described in greater detail in a commonly owned copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 995 616 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Embodiments according to the present invention can provide the ability to create advertising and other marketing information which target viewers of web pages or documents that are most likely to be read by people who would be interested in their products. For example techniques according to the present invention can determine that advertisements for Outside magazine would be of interest to readers of documents or web pages that contain information about mountaineering or trekking as well as readers indicating a preference for these concepts of interest for example. Advertisements for conferences for example can be triggered by displaying abstracts of papers from a previous conference on the same subject matter for example.

In a particular representative embodiment according to the present invention advertising can be targeted based upon the user s concepts of interest and how relevant these concepts are for a particular document. Relevance can be determined using a scoring or other method as described below. This information in conjunction with the actual content of the document can be used to target advertising to users. Concepts which define sets of interests can be collected from user input or other mechanisms. In a presently preferable embodiment user privacy can be maintained because user profiles are not shared with advertisers. User profiles can be stored locally on the client computer or at an ISP server or a proxy service for example. In some specific embodiments advertisers can be provided statistical information recorded by the user s browser for example.

In a yet further embodiment according to the present invention advertising can be selected based on content analysis. Advertising can be associated with web page contents for portals and the like based upon a system of assigned concepts. Providers of web portals for example can create a set of associations between web pages linked to the portal web page and the advertisement. In a particular embodiment content analysis techniques can provide the associations between advertising objects and web objects based upon particular categories.

Then in a step the contents of the document is again analyzed using the same technique as in step to determine relevance between the document and concepts which represent advertiser definitions. In a specific embodiment these advertising concepts can be keywords that advertisers have identified as being relevant to their product for example. In a specific embodiment a probability estimate can be generated for each advertising concept for each document. Then in a step a collection of relevant concepts can be produced based upon such probability estimates determined in step .

Next in an optional step the collection of concepts produced in step can be delivered to a web browser configured to display indications of relevancy of the document to user. Then in a step a comparison can be made between the collection of user concepts provided by step and collection of advertising concepts provided by step in order to determine which advertising concepts are most similar for example to the user concepts. Then in a step the selected advertising can be delivered to the user. Optionally the advertising can be displayed in a marketing information area of a web browser for example.

In some specific embodiments techniques well known to those of ordinary skill in the art could be used to perform a comparison such as that performed by step of . For instance the book Information Storage and Retrieval by Robert R. Korfhage John Wiley Sons Inc. 1997 describes several relevancy measures which can be used for matching. In one representative embodiment a matching technique uses a document similarity method in which each user and advertising concept could represent a document i.e. a collection of terms. Some specific embodiments can use a term frequency measure in which vector representations for both the user and advertising concepts are created. These vectors can be compared to create a new vector the size of the target vector with 1 s representing matches and 0 s representing non matches for example. In a representative example a user concept C can be represented as a vector of terms C and an advertising concept A can be represented as a vector of terms A . A vector comparison that indicates the frequency of terms from vector Cin vector Ayields the vector V .

In this example concept Ccontains seven keywords of which three matched the advertising concept A. Let Wrepresent the sum of the values in the vector V. The similarity value for this comparison is represented by S which is equal to Wdivided by the length of V which can be denoted by X multiplied by the comparison value ci 0.56 generated in step of between the document and the user concept e.g. 3 7 0.56 0.24 

The ci value provides a bias to the Svalue towards higher scoring user concepts. Given all relevant user concepts and all relevant advertising concepts a matrix can be constructed having similarity values for each combination of user advertising concepts. Table 1 illustrates a representative example of such a matrix in one specific embodiment.

In this representative example a collection of the relevant user concepts C C C . . . Ci and relevant advertising concepts A A A . . . Aj are included. The individual similarity value is represented for each comparison between user concept and advertising concept as S where i is the user concept index and j is the advertising concept index. Next in a step a best advertising concept given all of the user concepts can be determined. In this step the comparison value generated in step of between advertising and document aj is used to bias the user advertising concept comparison value Stowards advertising concepts which are more similar to the current document. This combination for each advertising concept yields the final similarity measure used to rank the advertisements 

If multiple advertisements with the same Rvalue are present the aj value can be used to break the tie and the advertising concept with the higher score with respect to the document will be delivered to the user s browser. If Rdoes not exceed some threshold e.g. 20 relevancy the advertisements can be ranked using the original content based value aj. In this case the better solution is to deliver an advertisement that is at least similar in content to the current document. Note that in the case where neither the Rvalue nor the aj value surpass a threshold then either no advertisement is displayed or other information in the advertisement area such as relevant headline news or news related to the user s profile can be displayed.

Annotation agent adds the annotations to document to prepare it for viewing by browser . Processing by annotation agent may be understood to be in three stages a text processing stage a content recognition stage and a formatting stage . The input to text processing stage can be raw text or text having embedded html tags for example. The output from text processing stage and input to content recognition stage is a parsed text stream a text stream with formatting information such as special tags around particular words or phrases removed. The output from content recognition stage and input to formatting stage is an annotated text stream. The output of formatting stage is a formatted text file which may be printed or viewed with browser .

The processing of annotation agent is preferably a run time process. The annotations are not preferably pre inserted into the text but are rather generated when user requests document for browsing. Thus this is preferably a dynamic process. In an alternative embodiment annotation agent may instead operate in the background as a batch process.

The annotation added by annotation agent depends on concepts of interest selected by user . User also inputs information used by annotation agent to identify locations of discussion of concepts of interest in document . In a preferred embodiment this information defines the structure of a Bayesian belief network. The concepts of interest and other user specific information are maintained in a user profile file . User employs a profile editor to modify the contents of user profile file .

Text processing stage includes a file I O stage an updating stage and a language processing stage . File I O stage reads the document file from network . Updating stage maintains a history of recently visited documents in a history file . Language processing stage parses the text of document to generate the parsed text output of text processing stage .

The structure of Bayesian belief network is only one possible structure applicable to the present invention. For example one could employ a Bayesian belief network with more than two levels of hierarchy so that the presence of subconcepts is suggested by the presence of subsubconcepts and so on. In the preferred embodiment presence of a keyword or key phrase always indicates presence of discussion of the subconcept but it is also possible to configure the belief network so that presence of a keyword or key phrase suggests discussion of the subconcept with a specified probability.

The primary source for the structure of Bayesian belief network including the selection of concepts keywords and key phrases interconnections and probabilities is user profile file . In a preferred embodiment user profile file is selectable for both editing and use from among profiles for many users.

The structure of reasoning system is modifiable during use of the annotation system. The modifications may occur automatically in the background or may involve explicit user feedback input. The locations of concepts of interest determined by pattern identification stage are monitored by profile updating stage . Profile updating stage notes the proximity of other keywords and key phrases within each analyzed document to the locations of concepts of interest. If particular keywords and key phrases are always near a concept of interest the structure and contents of reasoning system are updated in the background without user input by profile updating stage . This could mean changing probability values introducing a new connection between a subconcept and concept or introducing a new keyword. As used herein keyword can comprise a single keyword a phrase composed of one or more words or a key phrase.

User may select a word or phrase in document as being relevant to a particular concept even though the word or phrase has not yet defined to be a keyword or phrase. Reasoning system is then updated to include the new keyword.

User may also give feedback for an existing keyword indicating the perceived relevance of the keyword to the concept of interest. If the selected keyword is indicated to be of high relevance to the concept of interest the probability values connecting the subconcept indicated by the selected keywords to the concept of interest increases. If on the other hand user indicates the selected keywords to be of little interest the probability values connecting these keywords to the concept decrease.

A defined concepts list lists all of the concepts which already exist in the user profile. By selecting a concept add button the user may add a new concept. By selecting a concept edit button the user may modify the belief network as it pertains to the listed concept that is currently selected. By selecting a remove button the user may delete a concept.

If a concept has been selected for editing its name appears in a concept name box . The portion of the belief network pertaining to the selected concept is shown in a belief network display window . Belief network display window shows the selected concept the subconcepts which have been defined as relating to the selected concept and the percentage values associated with each relationship. The user may add a subconcept by selecting a subconcept add button . The user may edit a subconcept by selecting the subconcept in belief network display window and then selecting a subconcept edit button . A subconcept remove button permits the user to delete a subconcept from the belief network.

Selecting subconcept add button causes a subconcept add window to appear. Subconcept add window includes a subconcept name box for entering the name of a new subconcept. A slider control permits the user to select the percentage value that defines the probability of the selected concept appearing given that the newly selected subconcept appears. A keyword list lists the keywords and key phrases which indicate discussion of the subconcept. The user adds to the list by selecting a keyword add button which causes display of a dialog box not shown for entering the new keyword or key phrase. The user deletes a keyword or key phrase by selecting it and then selecting a keyword delete button . Once the user has finished defining the new subconcept he or she confirms the definition by selecting an OK button . Selection of a cancel button dismisses subconcept add window without affecting the belief network contents or structure. Selection of subconcept edit button causes display of a window similar to subconcept add window permitting redefinition of the selected subconcept.

By determining whether a background learning checkbox has been selected the user may enable or disable the operation of profile updating stage . A web autofetch check box permits the user to select whether or not to enable an automatic web search process. When this web search process is enabled whenever a particular keyword or key phrase is found frequently near where a defined concept is determined to be discussed a web search tool such as ALTAVISTA is employed to look on the World Wide Web for documents containing the keyword or key phrase. A threshold slider control is provided to enable the user to set a threshold relevance level for this autofetching process.

In a preferred embodiment software to implement the present invention is written in the Java language. Preferably the software forms a part of a stand alone browser program. Alternatively the code may be in the form of a so called plug in operating with a web browser used to browse HTML documents including the annotation tags explained above.

In conclusion the present invention provides for a method of document content analysis for targeting advertising. In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to a specific exemplary embodiments thereof. Many changes or modifications are readily envisioned. For example changing the size or arrangement of the document images in the display changing the appearance and features of document images adding audio effects when manipulating the document images etc. adding audio memos describing the contents of the document images substituting any reasoning system for a Bayesian belief network among other changes are included within other embodiments of the present invention. It will be evident however that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims and their full scope of equivalents.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than in a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

