---

title: Customer feedback reporting
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed for reporting customer feedback. The disclosed systems and methods may include extracting data in response to content selections by the customer, wherein the extracted data indicates customer preference data based on a content selection. Furthermore, the disclosed systems and methods may include storing the extracted data into a data repository and categorizing the extracted data for use by the content operator. Moreover, the disclosed systems and methods may include receiving a query requesting categorized data from the data repository and reporting the categorized data to the content operator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07567983&OS=07567983&RS=07567983
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 07567983
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060822
---
Under provisions of 35 U.S.C. 119 e the Applicants claim the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 60 718 472 filed Sep. 19 2005 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention generally relates to methods and systems for reporting customer feedback. More particularly the present invention relates to reporting cable customer data regarding preferences for entertainment on demand viewing as well as system usage information for content viewing systems.

Customer feedback reporting is a process for providing data to a content operator for example a cable operator about customer preferences and usage in order for the content operator to better serve their customers. Also the data about customer preferences could further be provided to a content provider which sells content to the content operator to determine which content to further pursue and which content to stop producing. In some situations such data would reside in several areas in a content operator s business structure and can vary depending on a particular market in which the customer resides. The data can also be difficult to assemble in a timely manner which could delay important decisions by the content operator regarding customer services.

For example a movie listing for example Star Wars Episode III may be very popular for customer viewing in San Diego Calif. but customers in Orange County California may prefer viewing Madagascar. In addition customers in a particular market may prefer viewing an original series produced by a content provider for example HBO s The Soprano s instead of viewing movies provided by the content operator. The conventional strategy for providing such data includes acquiring information that can be gleaned from customer billing records for example where a customer purchases an on demand viewing of Madagascar . This often causes problems because the conventional strategy does not obtain information concerning content viewing when the customer has a subscription for viewing content provided by a content provider for example HBO. Thus any data regarding customer viewing habits for HBO on demand is difficult to obtain. In addition any data regarding customer viewing habits or customer problems with viewing content is not assembled into a format which is easily discernable by the content operator s technical support staff customer service staff or any other segment within the content operator s company. Thus the content operator cannot make timely changes to content or determine areas in which content is not being received by customers.

In view of the foregoing there is a need for methods and systems for reporting customer data more efficiently. Furthermore there is a need for reporting customer data in a manner which is useful for content operators for making decisions about content available to customers in an on demand format and for providing data about customer preferences to a content provider.

Consistent with embodiments of the present invention systems and methods are disclosed for reporting customer feedback.

In accordance with one embodiment a method of reporting customer preference data and customer usage data in response to content provided to the customer for use by a content operator comprises extracting data in response to content selections by the customer wherein the extracted data indicates customer preference data based on a content selection storing the extracted data into a data repository categorizing the extracted data for use by the content operator receiving a query requesting categorized data from the data repository and reporting the categorized data to the content operator.

According to another embodiment a system for reporting customer preference data and customer usage data in response to content provided to the customer for use by a content operator comprises at least one memory stage device for maintaining one or more databases at least one processing unit coupled to the at least one memory storage device wherein the at least one processing unit is operative to extract data in response to content selections by the customer wherein the extracted data indicates customer preference data based on a content selection store the extracted data into a data repository categorize the extracted data for use by the content operator receive a query requesting categorized data from the data repository and report the categorized data to the content operator.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and should not be considered restrictive of the scope of the invention as described and claimed. Further features and or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example embodiments of the invention may be directed to various combinations and sub combinations of the features described in the detailed description.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar parts. While several exemplary embodiments and features of the invention are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example substitutions additions or modifications may be made to the components illustrated in the drawings and the exemplary methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the invention. Instead the proper scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

Embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in a number of distributed computing environments where functionality is tailored for provision of customer support services. According to an illustrated embodiment the present invention can be implemented in a cable television services system. is a simplified block diagram illustrating a cable television services system hereafter referred to as CATV architecture that serves as an exemplary operating environment for the present invention.

Referring now to digital and analog video programming information content and interactive television services may be provided via a hybrid fiber coax HFC network to a television set for consumption by a cable television services system customer customer . The HFC network can combine both optical fiber and coaxial cable lines. Typically optical fiber can run from a server side head end to neighborhoods of 500 to 2 000 customers. Coaxial cable can run from optical fiber feeders to each customer. Functionality of the HFC network may allow efficient bidirectional data flow between a client side set top box and a server side application server .

The CATV system may also include a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via the server side head end and the client side customer via a client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as a television set . CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data can be provided to the customer television set via the set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system can also be provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB may be a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism not shown . The input output mechanism can receive input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as a remote control device and a keyboard . The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as an infrared connection . The STB can also include a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner not shown may be provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB may also include an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash from a third party service to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer can be provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. The middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces API that are exposed to client applications and operating systems thereby allowing the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer can be included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . The middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB can format data passed between the client side and server side using an Extensible Markup Language XML format.

The set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network using a data uplink.

The video data downlink may be an in band downlink. The in band downlink may be used for transferring digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box . Thus the digital and analog video and data signaling can be used by the STB for distribution to the television set . The in band signaling space operates at a frequency between for example 54 and 860 megahertz. The signaling space between 54 and 860 megahertz is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted using a single analog signal or multiple digital signals e.g. up to ten .

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box may also include out of band data links. An out of band frequency range generally lies between zero and 54 megahertz. Data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server may utilize the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel in which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB .

Referring still to the server side head end of the CATV system may be positioned on the server side of the CATV system and can include hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing data through the HFC network to client side STB for presentation to customers via the television . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including but not limited to digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server can be a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server may include a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet . The third party data may be then be transmitted to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example a weather report created by a third party weather service may be downloaded by the CATV system using the application server and the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded weather report the middleware layer may be utilized to format the weather report for receipt and use by the set top box .

According to one embodiment of the present invention data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server can be formatted using an Extensible Markup Language XML and can be passed to the set top box through the HFC network . The XML formatted data may be utilized by the client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. Data from a variety of third party services including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server from third party services using distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box .

The application server obtains customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television session. As illustrated in data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. The billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. Such customer information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

An electronic mail system may contain information such as electronic mail addresses high speed Internet access subscription information and electronic mail usage data. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. The disparate data services systems are illustrated as a collection of data services for purposes of example only. The example data services systems comprising the data services may operate as separate data services systems which communicate with a web services system described below along a number of different communication paths and according to a number of different communication protocols.

Referring still to a web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments of the present invention the web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . According to embodiments of the present invention when the application server requires customer services data from one or more of the data services the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems. The data query may be used for obtaining any required data for a requesting customer as identified by a set top box identification. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

A revenue analysis report may provide information to a segment of a content operator s company detailing content purchases for a given piece of content and any revenue generated from the content purchase. Because the data services can categorize and organize customer preference data and customer usage data the revenue analysis report can be used to provide information regarding content purchases for example for multiple markets in which the content operator provides content to customers specific markets in which the content operator provides content to customers or specific areas with a market in which the content operator provides content to customers using for example a zip code. Other categorized information that may be provided in the revenue analysis report can include revenue information based on a particular customer demographic.

Output illustrates customer purchases and revenue received from the customer purchases when viewing content for example the movie Lord of the Rings The Return of the King for all markets in which the content operator provided the movie to customers on a particular day. The revenue analysis report may be sorted to narrow information displayed to the content operator by for example market and demographic using for example a pull down menu call menu table or the like. Other categorizations may include movie category and type of service used by the customer to purchase the movie for example Movies on demand MOD Subscription On Demand SVOD Free Zone Showcase or Local on demand LOD .

Cable television services system may also provide ad hoc reporting as an exemplary output. Thus a content operator may obtain desired data about a variety of topics relating to customers and content. Accordingly information important to certain segments within a content operator s company may be obtained for use within the segment. Ad hoc reports may narrow date according to data time range market hub node service group demographic title content provider content category service base and advertisers. The content operator may narrow data using drop down menus or any other method of selecting one or more topics.

By using customer feedback reporting a content operator may better provide customer service to customers through an analysis of data relating to customer preferences usage when viewing content and system operations. In addition the content operator may provide the data from the customer feedback reporting to a content provider to enable the content provider to tailor their content.

The invention may be practiced in an electrical circuit comprising discrete electronic elements packaged or integrated electronic chips containing logic gates a circuit utilizing a microprocessor or on a single chip containing electronic elements or microprocessors. The invention may also be practiced using other technologies capable of performing logical operations such as for example AND OR and NOT including but not limited to mechanical optical fluidic and quantum technologies. In addition the invention may be practiced within a general purpose computer or in any other circuits or systems.

The present invention may be embodied as systems methods and or computer program products. Accordingly the present invention may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code etc. . Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. A computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber and a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM . Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Embodiments of the present invention are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It is to be understood that the functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order noted in the operational illustrations. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain features and embodiments of the invention have been described other embodiments of the invention may exist. Furthermore although embodiments of the present invention have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums aspects can also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks or a CD ROM a carrier wave from the Internet or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the steps of the disclosed methods may be modified in any manner including by reordering stages and or inserting or deleting stages without departing from the principles of the invention.

It is intended therefore that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims and their full scope of equivalents.

