---

title: Use of spiegelmers to inhibit an intracellular target molecule
abstract: The present invention relates to the use of a L-nucleic acid as intracellularly active agent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08497250&OS=08497250&RS=08497250
owner: NOXXON Pharma AG
number: 08497250
owner_city: Berlin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060504
---
One aspect of the present invention relates to a new use of spiegelmers. Another aspect of the present invention relates to spiegelmers that bind HMG proteins.

With advances in molecular medicine it has become possible to identify target molecules involved in a disease or a disease state and to act on these specifically so as thereby to treat or prevent the disease or the disease state or at least to alleviate the symptoms associated therewith. The target molecules can in principle be divided into two groups. A first group includes target molecules that are present extracellularly and can thus in principle be brought into contact with an active substance by administering the latter in a body fluid or a body cavity that contains the target molecule. The first group of target molecules is herein also referred to as extracellular target molecules. The second group of target molecules includes target molecules that are present in cells these cells being involved in the disease to be treated or in the predisposition to the disease. It is not necessary in this connection for the target molecule to be directly responsible for the disease state or directly connected with the predisposition to the disease. Instead it is sufficient if the respective target molecule is involved in an action cascade the course of which is influenced by the active substance with the result that the active substance is suitable for the treatment or prevention of the disease. The second group of target molecules is herein also referred to as intracellular target molecules.

The nature of the target molecule i.e. extracellular or intracellular target molecule determines in principle the binding class with which an attempt can be made to effect the interaction necessary for the therapeutic or preventive action between the active substance typically the pharmaceutical active substance and the target molecule. In virtually all cases so called small molecules can be used i.e. chemical compounds with a molecular weight of typically 1000 daltons or less. These molecules can interact in the desired manner directly with extracellular target molecules as well as with intracellular target molecules.

Against this background new classes of active substances have been developed by the biotechnology industry such as for example antibodies in particular monoclonal antibodies antisense molecules siRNA molecules aptamers and spiegelmers. Although some of these classes of molecules are still in the preliminary stage of clinical investigations there exist at least in the case of antibodies and antisense molecules products that are already in clinical use. However with these new classes of substances there are also significant problems as regards addressing intracellular target molecules. Thus for example the intracellular use of antibodies is currently still not always possible at least not to an extent or in a way and manner that allows a routine use in patients of antibodies directed against intracellular target molecules for the purposes of treatment and or prophylaxis. Also the other new classes of active substances in particular antisense molecules and siRNA molecules must on account of their action mechanism be introduced into the respective cell containing the target molecule or the gene coding for the target molecule. The targeted release of the active substance also termed delivery is also for these classes of substances the currently limiting factor for a clinical application.

The same is also true of aptamers and spiegelmers i.e. functional nucleic acids with a defined three dimensional structure that allows the specific interaction with the respective target molecules. The use of aptamers in order to address intracellular target molecules utilises methods of gene technology more specifically gene therapy. The aptamers also termed intramers directed against an intracellular target molecule are incorporated into the respective target cell by means of gene technology methods. Such an approach is however also subject to considerable limitations not least on account of the lack of acceptance of treatment approaches based on gene therapy. In particular the route adopted in the case of intramers involving intracellular expression of a nucleic acid coding intracellularly for the respective aptamer is in principle closed to spiegelmers since no biological system exists which would be capable of synthesising spiegelmers i.e. aptamers consisting of L nucleotides.

The object of the present invention is accordingly to provide a class of substances that is able to interact specifically with intracellular target molecules i.e. target molecules that are present in a cell.

According to the invention this object is achieved by the subject matter of the accompanying independent claims. Preferred embodiments are disclosed in the sub claims.

According to the present invention the basic object is achieved by the subject matter of the independent claims. Preferred embodiments are disclosed in the sub claims.

According to a first aspect of the invention the object is achieved by the use of a L nucleic acid as intracellular active agent.

In a second embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the first embodiment the L nucleic acid interacts with an intracellular receptor.

In a third embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the second embodiment the intracellular receptor is selected from the group comprising molecular receptors enzymes chaperone molecules signal peptides intracellular structures and metabolic intermediates.

In a fourth embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the second embodiment the intracellular receptor is selected from the group comprising polypeptides carbohydrates nucleic acids lipids and combinations thereof.

In a fifth embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the second third and fourth embodiment the L nucleic acid interacts with an intracellular receptor within a cell.

In a sixth embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the second third fourth and fifth embodiment the intracellular receptor is selected from the group comprising transcription factors and DNA binding proteins binding an AT hook.

In a seventh embodiment of the first aspect which is also an embodiment of the sixth embodiment the intracellular receptor is selected from the group comprising HMG proteins preferably from the group comprising HMGA1 HMGA1a HMGA1b and HMGA2.

According to a second aspect of the present invention this object is achieved by a method for binding an intracellular receptor comprising 

In a first embodiment of the second aspect the incubation takes place under conditions so that the L nucleic acid binds to the intracellular receptor in the cell.

In a second embodiment of the second aspect which is also an embodiment of the first embodiment the L nucleic acid is a spiegelmer.

In a third embodiment of the second aspect which is also an embodiment of the first and second embodiment after the incubation of the cell with the L nucleic acid it is determined whether a binding in particular an intracellular binding of the L nucleic acid to the intracellular receptor has taken place.

In a fourth embodiment of the second aspect which is also an embodiment of the first second and third embodiment the intracellular receptor is selected from the group comprising molecular receptors metabolic intermediates and enzymes.

In a fifth embodiment of the second aspect which is also an embodiment of the first second third and fourth embodiment the intracellular receptor is selected from the group comprising polypeptides carbohydrates nucleic acids lipids and combinations thereof.

In a sixth embodiment of the second aspect which is also an embodiment of the first second third fourth and fifth embodiment the intracellular receptor is selected from the group comprising transcription factors and DNA binding proteins binding an AT hook.

In a seventh embodiment of the second aspect which is also an embodiment of the sixth embodiment the intracellular receptor is selected from the group comprising HMG proteins and is preferably selected from the group comprising HMGA1 HMGA1a HMGA1b and HMGA2.

According to a third aspect of the invention this object is achieved by use of a L nucleic acid to manufacture a medicament for the treatment and or prevention of a disease the target molecule of the medicament being an intracellular target molecule.

In a first embodiment of the third aspect the intracellular receptor is selected from the group comprising molecular receptors enzymes chaperone molecules signal peptides intracellular structures and metabolic intermediates.

In a second embodiment of the third aspect which is also an embodiment of the first embodiment the intracellular receptor is selected from the group comprising polypeptides carbohydrates nucleic acids lipids and combinations thereof.

In a third embodiment of the third aspect which is also an embodiment of the first and second embodiment the target molecule is selected from the group comprising transcription factors and DNA binding proteins binding an AT hook.

In a fourth embodiment of the third aspect which is also an embodiment of the third embodiment the target molecule is selected from the group comprising HMG proteins and is preferably selected from the group comprising HMGA1 HMGA1a HMGA1b and HMGA2.

In a fifth embodiment of the third aspect which is also an embodiment of the third and fourth embodiment the disease is selected from the group comprising tumour diseases virus infections and arteriosclerosis.

In a sixth embodiment of the third aspect which is also an embodiment of the fifth embodiment the tumour disease is selected from the group comprising mesenchymal tumours epithelial tumours benign tumours malignant tumours and metastasising tumours.

In a seventh embodiment of the third aspect which is also an embodiment of the third fourth fifth and sixth embodiment the target molecule is HMGA and the diseases are selected from the group comprising carcinomas of the prostate pancreas thyroid cervix stomach breast colon rectum ovaries pneuroblastomas lymphomas uterine leiomyomas lipomas endometrial polyps chondroid hamartomas of the lungs pleomorphic adenomas of the salivary glands haemangiopericytomas chondromatous tumours aggressive angiomyxomas diffuse astrocytomas osteoclastomas skin cancer Burkitt s lymphoma Lewis lung cancer leukaemia non small cell lung cancer as well as in each case metastases and or metastasising forms thereof.

In an eighth embodiment of the third aspect which is also an embodiment of the fifth embodiment the arteriosclerosis is triggered or caused by formation of arteriosclerotic plaques mediated by HMGA1 HMGA1a HMGA1b and or HMGA2.

In a ninth embodiment of the third aspect which is also an embodiment of the first second third fourth fifth sixth seventh and eighth embodiment the intracellular target molecule is present intracellularly.

According to a fourth aspect of the invention the object is achieved by the use of a L nucleic acid for the manufacture of a diagnostic agent for diagnostic purposes the target molecule of the diagnostic agent being an intracellular target molecule.

In a first embodiment of the fourth aspect the intracellular receptor is selected from the group comprising molecular receptors enzymes chaperone molecules signal peptides intracellular structures and metabolic intermediates.

In a second embodiment of the fourth aspect which is also an embodiment of the first embodiment the intracellular receptor is selected from the group comprising polypeptides carbohydrates nucleic acids lipids and combinations thereof.

In a third embodiment of the fourth aspect which is also an embodiment of the first and second embodiment the target molecule is selected from the group comprising transcription factors and DNA binding proteins binding an AT hook.

In a fourth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is also an embodiment of the third embodiment the target molecule is selected from the group comprising HMG proteins and is preferably selected from the group comprising HMGA HMGA1a HMGA1b and HMGA2.

In a fifth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is also an embodiment of the third and fourth embodiment the disease is selected from the group comprising tumour diseases virus infections and arteriosclerosis.

In a sixth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is also an embodiment of the fifth embodiment the tumour disease is selected from the group comprising mesenchymal tumours epithelial tumours benign tumours malignant tumours and metastasising tumours.

In a seventh embodiment of the fourth aspect which is also an embodiment of the third fourth fifth and sixth embodiment the target molecule is HMGA and the disease is selected from the group comprising carcinomas of the prostate pancreas thyroid cervix stomach breast colon rectum ovaries neuroblastomas lymphomas uterine leiomyomas lipomas endometrial polyps chondroid hamartomas of the lungs pleomorphic adenomas of the salivary glands haemangiopericytomas chondromatous tumours aggressive angiomyxomas diffuse astrocytomas osteoclastomas skin cancer Burkitt s lymphoma Lewis lung cancer leukaemia non small cell lung cancer as well as in each case metastases and or metastasising forms thereof.

In an eighth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is also an embodiment of the fifth embodiment the arteriosclerosis is triggered by formation of arteriosclerotic plaques mediated by HMGA1 HMGA1a HMGA1b and or HMGA2.

In a ninth embodiment of the fourth aspect which is also an embodiment of the first second third fourth fifth sixth and seventh embodiment the intracellular target molecule is present intracellularly.

According to a fifth aspect of the invention the object is achieved by a composition comprising a L nucleic acid binding to an intracellular target molecule and a delivery vehicle.

In a first embodiment of the fifth aspect the delivery vehicle is a delivery vehicle suitable for the intracellular delivery of the L nucleic acid.

In a second embodiment of the fifth aspect which is also an embodiment of the first embodiment the delivery vehicle is selected from the group comprising vehicles conjugates and physical means.

In a third embodiment of the fifth aspect which is also an embodiment of the second embodiment the delivery vehicle is a vehicle selected from the group comprising liposomes nanoparticles microparticles cyclodextrins or dendrimers or a vesicle consisting of polypeptides polyethyleneimine and or amphipathic molecules.

In a fourth embodiment of the fifth aspect which is also an embodiment of the second embodiment the delivery vehicle is a conjugate wherein the conjugate is a conjugate for the receptor mediated endocytosis a conjugate with a fusogenic peptide a conjugate with a signal peptide a conjugate with a nucleic acid preferably a conjugate with a spiegelmer or a lipophilic conjugate.

In a fifth embodiment of the fifth aspect which is also an embodiment of the second embodiment the delivery vehicle is a physical means the physical means preferably being selected from the group comprising electroporation iontophoresis pressure ultrasound and shock waves.

In a sixth embodiment of the fifth aspect which is also an embodiment of the third embodiment the delivery vehicle comprises polyethyleneimine.

In a seventh embodiment of the fifth aspect which is also an embodiment of the sixth embodiment the polyethyleneimine is a branched polyethyleneimine with a molecular weight of about 25 kDa.

In an eighth embodiment of the fifth aspect which is also an embodiment of the sixth and seventh embodiment the polyethyleneimine forms a micelle or a micelle like structure.

In a ninth embodiment of the fifth aspect which is also an embodiment of the first second third fourth fifth sixth seventh and eighth embodiment the L nucleic acid is a spiegelmer.

In a tenth embodiment of the fifth aspect which is also an embodiment of the ninth embodiment the spiegelmer carries a modification the said modification being selected from the group comprising PEG residues.

In an eleventh embodiment of the fifth aspect which is also an embodiment of the tenth embodiment the PEG residue has a molecular weight of about 1 000 to 10 000 Da preferably a molecular weight of about 1 500 to 2 500 Da and most preferably a molecular weight of about 2 000 Da.

In a twelfth embodiment of the fifth aspect which is also an embodiment of the tenth and eleventh embodiment the modification is bound to the 5 terminus or to the 3 terminus of the L nucleic acid.

In a thirteenth embodiment of the fifth aspect which is also an embodiment of the ninth tenth eleventh and twelfth embodiment in the composition the ratio of the total number of nitrogen groups of the polyethyleneimine to the total number of phosphate groups of the nucleic acid contained in the composition is about 1 to 20 preferably about 1.5 to 10 more preferably about 2 to 5 and most preferably about 2 to 3.

In a fourteenth embodiment of the fifth aspect which is also an embodiment of the first second third fourth fifth sixth seventh eighth ninth tenth eleventh twelfth and thirteenth embodiment the composition provides the L nucleic acid intracellularly.

According to a sixth aspect of the invention the object is achieved by the pharmaceutical composition comprising a composition according to the fifth aspect and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In an embodiment of the use according to the first aspect the L nucleic acid is a composition according to the fifth aspect.

In an embodiment of the method according to the second aspect the L nucleic acid is a composition according to the fifth aspect.

In an embodiment of the use according to the third aspect the L nucleic acid is a composition according to the fifth aspect.

In an embodiment of the use according to the fourth aspect the L nucleic acid is a composition according to the fifth aspect.

According to a seventh aspect of the invention the object is achieved by an HMGA binding nucleic acid characterised in that the nucleic acid comprises a section Box A1 and a section Box A2 wherein the section Box A1 and the section Box A2 are joined to one another by an intermediate section and wherein Box A1 and Box A2 are selected individually and independently of one another from the group comprising GGGCG GGGUG and GGGAG.

In a first embodiment of the seventh aspect the intermediate section consists either of an intermediate section Z1 comprising six or seven nucleotides or of an intermediate section Z2 comprising 12 to 25 nucleotides.

In a second embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the first embodiment the nucleic acid at the 5 end of the section Box A1 has a first section and at the 3 end of the section Box A2 has a second section wherein preferably both sections independently of one another comprise four to eight nucleotides.

In a third embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the second embodiment the two sections are at least partly or completely hybridised with one another the hybridisation extending over four to eight nucleotide pairs.

In a fourth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the second and third embodiments the nucleic acid has at the 5 end of the section Box A1 a section Helix A1 and at the 3 end of the section Box A2 a section Helix A2 wherein preferably the section Helix A1 comprises four to eight nucleotides and preferably the section Helix A2 comprises four to eight nucleotides and wherein preferably the section Helix A1 forms the first section at the 5 end of the section Box A1 or a part thereof and wherein preferably the section Helix A2 forms the second section at the 3 end of the section Box A2 or a part thereof the length of the section Helix A1 being independent of the length of the section Helix A2.

In a fifth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the fourth embodiment the sections Helix A1 and Helix A2 are at least partly or completely hybridised with one another the hybridisation extending over four to eight nucleotide pairs.

In a sixth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the fourth and fifth embodiment between the 3 end of the section Helix A1 and the 5 end of the section Box A1 a section Helix B1 is arranged and between the 3 end of the section Box A2 and the 5 end of the section Helix A2 a section Helix B2 is arranged wherein preferably the length of the section Helix B1 and Helix B2 comprises in each case individually and independently a length of four to eight nucleotides.

In a seventh embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the sixth embodiment the sections Helix B1 and Helix B2 are at least partly or completely hybridised with one another the hybridisation extending over four to eight nucleotide pairs.

In an eighth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the sixth and seventh embodiment zero to five nucleotides are arranged between the 3 end of the section Helix A1 and the 5 end of the section Helix B1.

In a ninth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the eighth embodiment two nucleotides are arranged between the 3 end of the section Helix A1 and the 5 end of the section Helix B1.

In a tenth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the sixth seventh eighth and ninth embodiment zero to six nucleotides are arranged between the 3 end of the section Helix B2 and the 5 end of the section Helix A2.

In an eleventh embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the tenth embodiment preferably insofar as this is an embodiment of the ninth embodiment a nucleotide is arranged between the 3 end of the section Helix B2 and the 5 end of the section Helix A2.

In a twelfth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the sixth seventh eighth ninth tenth and eleventh embodiment the sum of the nucleotides of section Helix A1 and of section Helix B1 is ten to twelve nucleotides and the sum of the nucleotides of section Helix A2 and of section Helix B2 is ten to twelve nucleotides.

In a thirteenth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the twelfth embodiment the sum of the hybridised nucleotides from the hybridisation of section Helix A1 with section Helix A2 and of section Helix B1 with section Helix B2 is ten to twelve nucleotide pairs.

In a fourteenth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the sixth seventh eighth ninth tenth eleventh twelfth and thirteenth embodiment preferably of the sixth or seventh embodiment the nucleic acid does not comprise a section Helix A1 and Helix A2 whereby the section Helix B1 is arranged at the 5 end of the nucleic acid and the Helix B2 is arranged at the 3 end wherein preferably the length of the section Helix B1 and Helix B2 comprises in each case individually and independently a length of four to eight nucleotides.

In a fifteenth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the fourteenth embodiment the sections Helix B1 and Helix B2 are at least partly or completely hybridised with one another the hybridisation extending over four to eight nucleotide pairs.

In a sixteenth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is an embodiment of the fourth and fifth embodiment one to five nucleotides are arranged between the 3 end of the section Helix A1 and the 5 end of the section Box A1 and one to three nucleotides are arranged between the 3 end of the section Box A2 and the 5 end of the section Helix A2.

In a seventeenth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the sixth seventh eighth ninth tenth eleventh twelfth thirteenth fourteenth and fifteenth embodiment two nucleotides are arranged between the 3 end of the section Helix B1 and the 5 end of the section Box A1 and one to seven nucleotides are arranged between the 3 end of the section Box A2 and the 5 end of the section Helix B2.

In an eighteenth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the first second third fourth fifth sixth seventh eighth and tenth embodiment insofar as this is an embodiment of the sixth seventh and eighth embodiment of the twelfth and thirteenth embodiment insofar as these are embodiments of the sixth seventh eighth and tenth embodiments of the fourteenth and fifteenth embodiment insofar as these are embodiments of the sixth seventh eighth tenth twelfth and thirteenth embodiment or of the seventeenth embodiment insofar as these are embodiments of the sixth eighth tenth twelfth thirteenth and fifteenth embodiment in each case in the herein restricted scope the intermediate section Z1 comprises six or seven nucleotides.

In a nineteenth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the eighteenth embodiment the intermediate section Z1 comprises the sequence NNGNNNN wherein

In a twentieth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the nineteenth embodiment the nucleic acid comprises a section Box A1 and a section Box A2 wherein the 3 end of the section Box A1 is joined directly to the 5 end of the intermediate section Z1 and the 3 end of the intermediate section Z1 is joined directly to the 5 end of the section Box A2.

In a twenty first embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the eighteenth nineteenth and twentieth embodiment in particular of the twentieth embodiment the nucleic acid comprises a section Helix B1 and a section Helix B2.

In a twenty second embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the twenty first embodiment the sections Helix B1 and Helix B2 comprise in each case individually and independently of one another four to eight nucleotides which are preferably completely or partly hybridised with one another.

In a twenty third embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the twenty first and twenty second embodiment two nucleotides N Nare arranged between the 3 end of the section Helix B1 and the 5 end of the section Box A1 in the 5 3 direction wherein Nis G A or U and Nis G or U.

In a twenty fourth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the twenty first twenty second and twenty third embodiment there is no nucleotide between the 3 end of the section Box A2 and the 5 end of the section Helix B2 or the nucleotide sequence GNis arranged in the 5 3 direction wherein NY comprises zero to six nucleotides preferably 0 or 6 nucleotides.

In a twenty fifth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the eighteenth nineteenth twentieth twenty first twenty second twenty third and twenty fourth embodiment the nucleic acid comprises a section Helix A1 and Helix A2.

In a twenty sixth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the twenty fifth embodiment the sections Helix A1 and Helix A2 comprise in each case individually and independently of one another four to eight nucleotides wherein preferably the sections Helix A1 and Helix A2 are completely or partly hybridised with one another.

In a twenty seventh embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the twenty fifth and twenty sixth embodiment a nucleotides sequence Nis arranged between the 3 end of the section Helix A1 and the 5 end of the section Helix B1 wherein Ncomprises zero to five nucleotides.

In a twenty eighth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the twenty fifth twenty sixth and twenty seventh embodiment a nucleotide sequence Nis arranged between the 3 end of the section Helix B2 and the 5 end of the section Helix A2 wherein Ncomprises zero to six nucleotides.

In a twenty ninth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the twenty first twenty second twenty third twenty fourth twenty fifth twenty sixth twenty seventh and twenty eighth embodiment the sum of the hybridised nucleotides from the hybridisation of section Helix A1 with section Helix A2 and of section Helix B1 with section Helix B2 is ten to twelve nucleotide pairs.

In a thirtieth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the twenty fourth twenty fifth twenty sixth twenty seventh twenty eighth and twenty ninth embodiment the nucleotide sequence GNis arranged between the 3 end of the section Box A2 and the 5 end of the section Helix B2 in the 5 3 direction wherein Ncomprises zero to six nucleotides preferably 0 or 6 nucleotides.

In a thirty first embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the thirtieth embodiment the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprises the following structure

the section Box A1 and section Box A2 are selected in each case individually and independently of one another from the group of nucleotide sequences comprising GGGCG GGGUG and GGGAG 

the section Helix A1 and the section Helix A2 comprise in each case individually and independently of one another four to eight nucleotides wherein preferably the sections Helix A1 and Helix A2 are completely or partly hybridised with one another and

the sections Helix B1 and Helix B2 comprise in each case individually and independently of one another four to eight nucleotides wherein preferably the sections Helix B1 and Helix B2 are completely or partly hybridised with one another and the hybridising region comprises four to eight nucleotides and wherein the sum of the hybridised nucleotides from the hybridisation of section Helix A1 with section Helix A2 and of section Helix B1 with section Helix B2 is 10 to 12 nucleotide pairs.

In a thirty second embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the thirtieth and thirty first embodiment the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprises a sequence selected from the group comprising SEQ. ID. No. 1 SEQ. ID. No. 2 SEQ. ID. No. 3 SEQ. ID. No. 5 SEQ. ID. No. 6 SEQ. ID. No. 7 and SEQ. ID. No. 13.

In a thirty third embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the twenty fourth twenty fifth twenty sixth twenty seventh twenty eighth and twenty ninth embodiment the 3 end of the section Box A2 is joined directly to the 5 end of the section Helix B2.

In a thirty fourth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the thirty third embodiment the HMGA binding nucleic acid has the following structure

the section Box A1 and Section Box A2 are selected in each case individually and independently of one another from the group of nucleotide sequences comprising GGGCG GGGUG and GGGAG 

the section Helix A1 and the section Helix A2 comprise in each case individually and independently of one another four to eight nucleotides wherein preferably the sections Helix A1 and Helix A2 are completely or partly hybridised with one another and

the sections Helix B1 and Helix B2 comprise in each case individually and independently of one another four to eight nucleotides wherein preferably the sections Helix B1 and Helix B2 are completely or partly hybridised with one another and the hybridising region comprises four to eight nucleotides and wherein the sum of the hybridised nucleotides from the hybridisation of section Helix A1 with section Helix A2 and of section Helix B1 with section Helix B2 is 10 to 12 nucleotide pairs.

In a thirty fifth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the thirty third and thirty fourth embodiment the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprises a sequence including SEQ. ID. No. 3.

In a thirty sixth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the thirty first embodiment the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprises the following structure

In a thirty seventh embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the thirty fourth embodiment the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprises the following structure

In a thirty eighth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the thirty sixth embodiment the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprises a sequence which is selected from the group including SEQ. ID. No. 15 and SEQ. ID. No. 16.

In a thirty ninth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the first second third fourth fifth sixth seventh eighth ninth tenth eleventh twelfth thirteenth and sixteenth or seventeenth embodiment of the seventh aspect the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprises an intermediate section Zwhich comprises 12 to 25 nucleotides.

In a fortieth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the thirty ninth embodiment the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprises an intermediate section Z2 a section Helix C1 and a section Helix C2.

In a forty first embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the fortieth embodiment a central section Nis arranged between the section Helix C1 and the section Helix C2 of the HMGA binding nucleic acid.

In a forty second embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the fortieth or forty first embodiment the length of the section Helix C1 and Helix C2 of the HMGA binding nucleic acid are identical.

In a forty third embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the fortieth forty first and forty second embodiment the length of the section Helix C1 and Helix C2 of the HMGA binding nucleic acid is individually and independently three to six nucleotides.

In a forty fourth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the fortieth forty first forty second and forty third embodiment the sections Helix C1 and Helix C2 of the HMGA binding nucleic acid are completely or party hybridised with one another.

In a forty fifth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the thirty ninth fortieth forty first forty second forty third and forty fourth embodiment the central section Nof the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprises three to five nucleotides.

In a forty sixth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the thirty ninth fortieth forty first forty second forty third forty fourth and forty fifth embodiment the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprises a section Box A1 and a section Box A2 wherein a nucleotide sequence Nis arranged between the 3 end of the section Box A1 and the 5 end of the section Helix C1 and comprises three nucleotides.

In a forty seventh embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the thirty ninth fortieth forty first forty second forty third forty fourth forty fifth and forty sixth embodiment the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprises a section Box A1 and a section Box A2 wherein a nucleotide sequence Nis arranged between the 3 end of the section Helix C2 and the 5 end of the section Box A2 and comprises two to five nucleotides.

In a forty eighth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the thirty ninth fortieth forty first forty second forty third forty fourth forty fifth forty sixth and forty seventh embodiment the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprises a section Helix A1 and a section Helix A2.

In a forty ninth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the forty eighth embodiment the sections Helix A1 and Helix A2 of the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprise in each case individually and independently of one another five to six nucleotides wherein preferably the section Helix A1 and the section Helix A2 are completely or partly hybridised with one another.

In a fiftieth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the forty eighth and forty ninth embodiment a nucleotide sequence Nis arranged between the 3 end of the section Helix A1 and the 5 end of the section Box A1 of the HMGA binding nucleic acid wherein Ncomprises one to five nucleotides.

In a fifty first embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the forty eighth forty ninth and fiftieth embodiment a nucleotide sequence GNis arranged between the 3 end of the section Box A2 and the 5 end of the section Helix A2 of the HMGA binding nucleic acid in the 5 3 direction wherein Ncomprises one to two nucleotides preferably A or UU.

In a fifty second embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the forty eighth forty ninth fiftieth and fifty first embodiment the section Helix C1 and the section Helix C2 of the HMGA binding nucleic acid have in each case individually and independently of one another a length of five or six nucleotides wherein preferably the sections Helix C1 and Helix C2 are completely or partly hybridised with one another.

In a fifty third embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the fifty second embodiment the HMGA binding nucleic acid has the following structure 

the section Box A1 and the section Box A2 are selected in each case individually and independently of one another from the group comprising GGGCG GGGUG and GGGAG 

the sections Helix A1 and Helix A2 comprise in each case individually and independently of one another five or six nucleotides and

the sections Helix C1 and Helix C2 comprise in each case five or six nucleotides which are preferably completely or partly hybridised with one another.

In a fifty fourth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the fifty third embodiment the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprises a sequence which is selected from the group comprising SEQ. ID. No. 8 SEQ. ID. No. 9 SEQ. ID. No. 10 SEQ. ID. No. 11 SEQ. ID. No. 14 SEQ. ID. No. 22 and SEQ. ID. No. 24.

In a fifty fifth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the thirty ninth fortieth forty first forty second forty third and forty fourth embodiment the nucleic acid comprises a section Box 1 and a section Helix C1 of the HMGA binding nucleic acid wherein a nucleotide A is arranged between the 3 end of the section Box A1 and the 5 end of the section Helix C1.

In a fifty sixth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the fifty fifth embodiment the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprises a section Helix C2 and a section Box A2 wherein a nucleotide G is arranged between the 3 end of the section Helix C2 and the 5 end of the section Box A2.

In a fifty seventh embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the fifty fifth or fifty sixth embodiment the central section Nof the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprises four nucleotides wherein Nis preferably GAUG.

In a fifty eighth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the fifty fifth fifty sixth and fifty seventh embodiment the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprises a section Helix B1 and a section Helix B2.

In a fifty ninth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the fifty eighth embodiment the sections Helix B1 and Helix B2 of the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprise individually and independently of one another in each case five nucleotides wherein preferably the section Helix B1 is hybridised with the section Helix B2.

In a sixtieth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the fifty eighth or fifty ninth embodiment a nucleotide sequence comprising two nucleotides Nis arranged between the 3 end of the section Helix B1 and the 5 end of the section Box A1 of the HMGA binding nucleic acid wherein Nis preferably AG.

In a sixty first embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the fifty eighth fifty ninth and sixtieth embodiment a nucleotide G is arranged between the 3 end of the section Box A2 and the 5 end of Helix B2 of the HGMA binding nucleic acid.

In a sixty second embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the fifty fifth fifty sixth fifty seventh fifty eighth fifty ninth sixtieth and sixty first embodiment the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprises a section Helix A1 and a section Helix A2.

In a sixty third embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the sixty second embodiment the sections Helix A1 and Helix A2 of the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprise individually and independently of one another in each case six nucleotides and preferably the section Helix A1 and the section Helix A2 are hybridised with one another.

In a sixty fourth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the sixty second and sixty third embodiment a nucleotide sequence comprising two nucleotides Nis arranged between the 3 end of the section Helix A1 and the 5 end of the section Helix B1 wherein Nis preferably CA.

In a sixty fifth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the sixty second sixty third and sixty fourth embodiment a nucleotide A is arranged between the 3 end of the section Helix B2 and the 5 end of the section Helix A2.

In a sixty sixth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the fifty fifth to sixty fifth embodiment the sections Helix C1 and Helix C2 comprise in each case three nucleotides wherein preferably the section Helix C1 and Helix C2 are hybridised with one another.

In a sixty seventh embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the sixty sixth embodiment the HMGA binding nucleic acid has the following structure 

the sections Box A1 and Box A2 are in each case selected individually and independently of one another from the group comprising the sequences GGGCG GGGUG and GGGAG 

the sections Helix A1 and Helix A2 comprise in each case individually and independently six nucleotides which are preferably hybridised with one another 

the sections Helix B1 and Helix B2 comprise in each case individually and independently five nucleotides wherein preferably the section Helix B1 and the section Helix B2 are hybridised with one another and

the section Helix C1 and Helix C2 comprise in each case individually and independently three nucleotides wherein preferably the sections Helix C1 and Helix C2 are hybridised with one another.

In a sixty eighth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the sixty seventh embodiment the HMGA binding nucleic acid comprises a sequence which is selected from the group including SEQ. ID. No. 12.

In a sixty ninth embodiment of the seventh aspect which is also an embodiment of the second to sixty seventh embodiment the nucleic acid is one that binds to transcription factors in particular transcription factors comprising an AT hook.

According to the invention the object is achieved in an eighth aspect by a nucleic acid which binds to a transcription factor comprising an AT hook wherein the nucleic acid has a structure according to the seventh aspect.

In an embodiment of the composition according to the sixth aspect the L nucleic acid is a nucleic acid according to the seventh aspect.

In an embodiment of the use according to the first aspect the L nucleic acid is a nucleic acid according to the seventh aspect.

In an embodiment of the method according to the second aspect the L nucleic acid is a nucleic acid according to the seventh aspect.

In an embodiment of the use according to the third aspect the L nucleic acid is a nucleic acid according to the seventh aspect.

In an embodiment of the method according to the fourth aspect the L nucleic acid is a nucleic acid according to the seventh aspect.

According to the invention the object is achieved in a ninth aspect by a method for screening an HMGA antagonist or HMGA agonist comprising the following steps 

According to the invention the object is achieved in a tenth aspect by a method for screening an HMGA agonist and or an HMGA antagonist comprising the following steps 

In an embodiment of the tenth aspect it is envisaged that the determination is carried out by testing whether the nucleic acid is replaced by the candidate HMGA agonist or by the candidate HMGA antagonist.

According to the invention the object is achieved in an eleventh aspect by a kit for the detection of HMGA comprising a nucleic acid according to the seventh aspect.

According to the invention the object is achieved in a twelfth aspect by an HMGA antagonist which is obtainable by a method according to the tenth aspect.

According to the invention the object is achieved in a thirteenth aspect by an HMGA agonist which is obtainable by a method according to the tenth aspect.

According to the invention the object is achieved in a fourteenth aspect by a complex comprising an HMGA protein and a nucleic acid according to the seventh aspect.

The present invention is based on the surprising result that contrary to the received opinion in the prior art it is possible to use L nucleic acids and in particular spiegelmers in order to address intracellular target molecules. The intracellular target molecules are preferably target molecules which are present in a cell. The properties inherent in the functional L nucleic acids due to their structure of L nucleotides such as high specificity of the interaction with their target molecules with at the same time a high stability and absence of toxic or immunologically active decomposition products when the L nucleic acids are used in biological systems and in particular in the animal and human body does not however allow the cellular mechanisms to be utilised in order as in the case of intramers for L nucleic acids to be coded by a plasmid or generally a vector and thus provide the actually functional nucleic acid by the intracellularly occurring process of transcription.

This inescapable dilemma is solved by the present invention functional L nucleic acids and in particular spiegelmers can be transported through a cytoplasmic membrane while retaining their specificity as regards their binding to their target molecule and their activity. This permeability of the functional L nucleic acids is inherent in spiegelmers and can be enhanced still further by the use of delivery vehicles or delivery techniques. Without hereinafter wishing to be specific in this matter the present inventors start from the assumption that functional L nucleic acids can per se overcome the cytoplasmic membrane and with the participation of endosomal transport mechanisms in overcoming the cytoplasmic membrane are able to free this from the vesicle structures that are thereby formed with the adoption of a two dimensional or three dimensional structure which allows the specific interaction of the functional nucleic acid with its target molecule. With the technical teaching disclosed herein the principle developed for aptamers of utilising intracellular transcription mechanisms in order to create aptamers in the cell is intentionally avoided and for the first time means are provided for using functional L nucleic acids and in particular spiegelmers in cells.

As employed herein in a preferred embodiment the term functional nucleic acids denotes those nucleic acids that are different from structural in particular naturally occurring structural nucleic acids such as rRNAs or that are different from coding nucleic acids such as mRNAs. In particular functional nucleic acids are nucleic acids which on account of their two dimensional and or three dimensional structure are able to bind to target molecules. In a particularly preferred embodiment the binding to the target molecule takes place not by hybridisation or base pairing on the basis of Watson Crick base pairings or a Hoogsteen base pairing. Particularly preferred functional nucleic acids are aptamers and spiegelmers.

A L nucleic acid is in a preferred embodiment a nucleic acid that is completely substantially or partly synthesised from L nucleotides. It is particularly preferred if the L nucleic acid consists completely of L nucleotides. The term substantially denotes in this connection an embodiment in which that part of the L nucleic acid which is responsible for the interaction with the target molecule or that part which mediates the binding to the target molecule consist of L nucleotides or is synthesised from these.

As used herein a functional L nucleic acid is a functional nucleic acid which is completely substantially or partly synthesised from L nucleotides.

The synthesis of L nucleic acids is known to the person skilled in the art in this field and is described for example in Nolte et al. Nat. Biotech 14 1116 1119 1996 and Klussmann et al. Nat. Biotechnol 14 1112 1115 1996.

The basic process for the production of aptamers is described for example in Tuerck et al. Science 248 505 510 1990 or Ellington et al. Nature 346 818 822 1990 while the basic process for the production of spiegelmers is described for example in Nolte et al. Nat. Biotech 14 1116 1119 1996 or Klussmann et al. Nat. Biotechnol 14 1112 1115 1996. Spiegelmers are thus aptamers which consist of L nucleotides instead of D nucleotides. In connection with the production of aptamers and spiegelmers the term target molecule denotes that molecule which is used in the selection process to produce aptamers and spiegelmers or denotes that molecule which is ultimately bound by the aptamer or the spiegelmer.

In a preferred embodiment an intracellularly active agent is a chemical compound which when present in a cell is able to bind to a molecule. In this connection it is particularly preferred if the cell is a cell that exists isolated in a tissue or an organ but preferably not in a human or animal body. If the intracellularly active agent is a spiegelmer then preferably it is an intracellularly active agent if it is able to bind to an intracellular target molecule. Alternatively the spiegelmer is an intracellularly active agent if it is able to bind to its target molecule under conditions such as exist in a cell. Tests in order to determine these properties are known to the person skilled in the art in this field and include for example equilibrium binding assays under buffer conditions such as exist intracellularly ionic strength and solute composition pH temperature as disclosed in Example 1.

In a preferred embodiment the target molecule of the L nucleic acid in particular of the functional L nucleic acid is an intracellular receptor. An intracellular receptor as used herein is preferably a chemical compound or a chemical structure or respectively a part thereof with which the functional L nucleic acid interacts and is preferably a compound or structure to which the functional L nucleic acid binds wherein the intracellular receptor i.e. the chemical compound or the chemical structure or respectively a part thereof is present intracellularly i.e. is present in a cell as is preferably described in the preceding paragraph. In this connection it is possible within the scope of the present invention for the intracellular receptor to be the target molecule in the creation of the functional nucleic acid in particular the functional L nucleic acid.

In one embodiment the term receptor denotes any interaction partner preferably a specifically binding interaction partner of the functional nucleic acid i.e. denotes an interaction partner interacting with the functional nucleic acid which has a specific spatial structure charge distribution hydrophobicity distribution etc. In a particularly preferred embodiment the interaction partner corresponds to the target molecule of the functional nucleic acid as was used in the creation of the functional nucleic acid. In this connection it is within the scope of the present invention that a receptor can also be different from the target molecule used in the creation of the functional nucleic acid though the specific interaction is due to a cross reactivity of the functional nucleic acid between the interaction partner and the target molecule used in the creation of the functional nucleic acid.

In a preferred embodiment the term intracellular receptor denotes a receptor that is present in a cell or a receptor that can be present in a cell that occurs under natural circumstances in a cell or that under such circumstances exist in a cell. In this connection it is particularly preferred if the cell is a cell that occurs isolated in a tissue or an organ but preferably not in a human or animal body. As used herein the term intracellular receptor however also denotes a receptor that is present under conditions such as exist in a cell.

In a preferred embodiment the term cell denotes a cell which is selected from the group comprising prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. Preferably the eukaryotic cell is selected from the group comprising fungal cells plant cells animal cells and human cells. In an alternative embodiment the term cell generally denotes herein a compartment bounded by a phospholipid double membrane which in a preferred embodiment corresponds to a cytoplasmic membrane and which is separated by the membrane from the surroundings. The separation from the surroundings is in this connection not a complete separation but allows an energy transfer and a mass transfer substance exchange between the cell and the surroundings. The mass transfer is preferably restricted. In the case where the cell is separated from the surroundings by a cytoplasmic membrane or by a membrane similar to a cytoplasmic membrane the restriction of the mass transfer is defined by the transport properties of the membrane. In one embodiment the term cell herein thus also includes vesicles and or compartments of a prokaryotic or eukaryotic cell as defined herein which in turn are present or may be present both within a prokaryotic or eukaryotic cell as well as outside such a prokaryotic or eukaryotic cell for example as vesicles or parts of a prokaryotic or eukaryotic cell surrounded by a cytoplasmic membrane which in one embodiment can be present in a body fluid. In a preferred embodiment in a cell according to the second alternative embodiment it is envisaged that the conditions within such a cell correspond substantially to those occurring in a prokaryotic or eukaryotic cell in particular as regards the factors which influence the binding of the functional nucleic acid to its target molecule.

In a preferred embodiment the body fluid is selected from the group comprising blood urine liquor anatomical fluid lymph fluid serum plasma vaginal secretions saliva and sperm.

In one embodiment the receptor is defined by its function in a cell. Accordingly the receptor can be selected from the group comprising molecular receptors enzymes metabolic intermediates signal peptides chaperone molecules and intracellular structures such as for example ribosomes mitochondria elements of the cytoskeleton such as for example tubulin and actin filaments endosomal particles lysosomes other intracellular structures such as vesicles in particular intracellular vesicles. As used herein the term molecular receptor denotes in a preferred embodiment a molecule which accepts information and transmits this within a cell a tissue an organ or an organism. The information is typically mediated by a molecule which interacts with the molecular receptor. As a result of the interaction the molecular receptor is able to generate a signal. Such a signal can be based on the change in the confirmation and or of the activity of the receptor or can be manifested therein. The signal itself is able to transmit in another form the information received or processed by it. As a result of the change in the confirmation or activity of the molecular receptor the signal can preferably be a chemical biochemical or an electrical signal. Preferably the molecular receptor is part of a reaction cascade and more preferably part of a signal cascade. The information transmitted by a molecular receptor can be quantitative and or qualitative information for example concerning the presence of a compound and or its concentration.

In a preferred embodiment the term metabolic intermediates denotes all those compounds which due to metabolic activities in a cell occur as constituents of catabolism as well as of anabolism.

In a further embodiment the receptor is defined by its chemical nature. Preferably the receptor is selected from the group comprising polypeptides carbohydrates nucleic acids lipids and combinations thereof. As used herein the term polypeptide preferably denotes any polymer consisting of two or more amino acids. Preferably the amino acids are L amino acids though D amino acids may also be used within the scope of the embodiment. As used herein the term nucleic acids preferably denotes a polymer of two or more nucleotides or nucleotide analogues which are known to the person skilled in the art in this field wherein the nucleotides may be either D nucleotides or L nucleotides or mixtures thereof. Preferred combinations include glycosylated polypeptides and glycosylated lipids.

A particular group of intracellular receptors are transcription factors and DNA binding proteins which bind to an AT hook. Examples of transcription factors are given in the following table 1 

A further group of intracellular receptors are the intracellular target molecules listed in the following Table 2.

A further particularly preferred group of intracellular receptors are the HMG proteins such as are described for example in the International Patent Application PCT EP96 00716 and in particular the HMGA proteins. As used herein the term HMGA proteins preferably denotes overall the following proteins HMGA1 HMGA1a HMGA1b and HMGA2.

The HMGA proteins have a modular structure and each comprise three DNA binding domains which are termed AT hooks and are shown as DBD1 to DBD3 in as well as a very acidic C terminal region. It is obvious to the person skilled in the art that antagonists which bind to one of the AT hooks recognise not only the HMGA1 proteins and thus the two splice variants HMGA1A and HMGA1B see but also exhibit cross reactivity with similar DNA binding molecules such as HMGA2. Apart from HMGA2 many further proteins also have sequences similar to the AT hooks and form in each case further receptors. Such proteins are listed inter alia in Table 3 

Against this background the present invention also relates to L nucleic acids and in particular spiegelmers which are directed against any of the target molecules mentioned in Tables 1 to 3.

Since the L nucleic acid is used as an intracellularly active agent in particular within a cell in order to bind there to an intracellular receptor intracellularly different forms of the interactions between the intracellular receptor and its interaction partners can be influenced. Depending on the type of interaction partners of the intracellular receptor the intracellular use of L nucleic acids thus enables interactions of proteins nucleic acids lipids carbohydrates or combinations of proteins nucleic acids lipids carbohydrates with one another and between one another to be influenced.

In connection with the use according to the invention of a L nucleic acid in particular a spiegelmer as intracellular agent and the method for binding an intracellular receptor it should be noted that this preferably relates to an in vitro application and to an in vitro method.

In connection with the use according to the invention of a L nucleic acid in particular a spiegelmer for the production of a medicament for the treatment and or prevention of a disease and or for the production of a medicament for diagnostic purposes the target molecule is an intracellular target molecule. In this connection the intracellular target molecule is one that is causily or non causily involved in the disease or illness to be prevented treated or diagnosed but in any case its binding to a L nucleic acid that binds specifically thereto means that in the case of a medicament the disease is alleviated prevented or cured and or in the case of a diagnostic agent the disease or a predisposition thereto can be established or diagnosed. As used herein the concept of diagnosis include an initial diagnosis as well as subsequent diagnoses in particular diagnoses or investigations in order for example to follow or to determine the progression of the disease or the stages of the disease. It is within the scope of the invention that the target molecule is an intracellular receptor as described herein in particular a transcription factor an intracellular target molecule or an HMG protein. Within the scope of the present invention it is most particularly preferred if the target molecule is present intracellularly i.e. within a cell and the interaction having an influence on the disease and or diagnosis takes place intracellularly between the L nucleic acid and in particular the spiegelmer and the target molecule i.e. the receptor. It is also within the scope of the present invention if the target molecule is present outside a cell and the interaction between the L nucleic acid and in particular the spiegelmer and the target molecule i.e. the receptor takes place extracellularly.

The indications for use of the medicament produced using an L nucleic acid in which the nucleic acid is directed against an intracellular target molecule follow for the person skilled in the art from the involvement of the intracellular target molecule in the respective pathogenicity mechanism on which the indication is based. Thus it is known for example for HMGA proteins that these are associated with carcinomas inter alia of the breast lungs skin thyroid as well as leukaemias and lymphomas and other malignant tumours such as inter alia sarcomas rhabdomyosarcoma osteosarcoma . Also HMGA proteins are expressed in many types of mesenchymal tumours including inter alia hamartomas breast and lungs fatty tissue tumours lipomas pleomorphic adenomas of the salivary glands uterine leiomyomas angiomyxomas fibroadenomas of the breast polyps of the endometrium and atherosclerotic plaques. HMGA is an interesting therapeutic target. Blockade of HMGA could be a suitable starting point for controlling cancer and preventing its metastatic spread. As described in detail herein L nucleic acids directed against HMGA proteins are also suitable for the diagnosis and or treatment of virus diseases and arteriosclerosis on account of the involvement of HMGA proteins in the regulation of the transcription of a large number of viral genes or the marked expression of HMGA and in particular HMGA1 in the tissues affected by arteriosclerosis which is associated with neointimal vascular smooth muscle cells macrophages and new blood vessels.

Although as has been surprisingly found by the present inventors nucleic acids preferably L nucleic acids and particularly spiegelmers are able as such to penetrate a phospholipid double membrane such as a cytoplasmic membrane and then to be intracellularly functional in the sense of the specific interaction with the intracellular receptor the effectiveness of the infiltration of the L nucleic acid can be influenced and in particular enhanced by the use of various techniques. These techniques include the use of chemical compounds or molecules as well as the use of physical measures. Irrespective of the type these techniques are herein generally referred to as delivery vehicles. It is within the scope of the present invention that the inventors have likewise established that aptamers too exhibit this property and like the spiegelmers can similarly be used involved together with the composition according to the invention for basically the same purposes applications and uses.

In the use of chemical compounds and molecules a further distinction is whether the nucleic acid needs to be modified or not for the delivery. A modification for the purposes of using a delivery vehicle is generally not necessary if the delivery vehicle is or comprises a vesicle such as for example in the case of liposomes polypeptide vehicles cyclodextrins dendrimers nanoparticles and microparticles and also polyethyleneimine. A modification for the purposes of using a delivery vehicle is on the other hand normally necessary if the delivery vehicle uses receptor mediated endocytosis fusogenic peptides signal peptides or lipophilic conjugates. The group of physical techniques includes in particular electroporation and iontophoresis. It will be recognised that further techniques for transporting a compound through a phospholipid double membrane such as a cytoplasmic membrane are known to the person skilled in the art in this field which in principle are also suitable for the transfer of a functional nucleic acid such as for example an aptamer and or a spiegelmer.

The individual delivery vehicles which can be used within the scope of the various aspects of the present invention will be described in more detail hereinafter.

Liposomes consist of artificial cationic lipids such as N 1 2 3 dioleoyloxy propyl N N N trimethylammonium chloride DOTMA and N 1 2 3 dioleoyloxy propyl N N N trimethylammonium sulfate DOTAP in which the cationic groups interact with the negatively charged nucleic acids and neutralise their anionic charge. The transport takes place via endocytosis PNAS 93 11493 11498 1996 . However cationic liposomes are cytotoxic especially in higher concentrations which restricts their use in vitro and in vivo Biochem Biophys Res Commun 197 818 1993 Biochem Biophys Res Commun 1372 55 68 1998 . On the other hand the amphiphilic pyridinium based lipid SAINT 2 is a non toxic formulation Nucleic Acids Res 29 2079 2087 2001 . Also pH sensitive liposomes are a possible alternative which consist of amphiphatic molecules such as cholesteryl hemisuccinate CHEMS and dioleyl phosphatidyl ethanolamine DOPE J Pharmacol Exp Ther 297 1129 1136 2001 . Widely differing formulations of liposomes can be found in the review articles by Dass and Torchili Drug Delivery 9 169 180 2002 Nat Rev Drug Disc 4 145 160 2005 .

With receptor mediated endocytosis RME transport mechanisms which are already present in the cell membrane are utilised. For this purpose the nucleic acid is coupled for example via a poly L lysine PPL linker covalently to a transporter protein carrier protein The choice of transporter protein depends in this connection on the ability to bind to specific receptors of the cell membrane and to accumulate in the cell by endocytosis. A cell specific transport can thus be realised. For example an antisense phosphorothioate directed against c myc could be introduced into M 14 human melanoma cells Anticancer Res 17 29 35 1997 . However an effective transport by means of RME depends in this case not only on the affinity of the receptor for the ligand but also on the limitation of the selected receptor as regards the cells especially in vivo. Furthermore the selected ligand must be inactive or have an enhancing effect as regards the therapeutic result in order to avoid a possible toxicity of the transport vehicle. Thus the selection and the ubiquitous propagation of the selected receptor in vivo is decisive for a successful RME based transport. Moreover a sequestration of nucleic acids in endosomal compartments has been observed in RME based transport which would appear to make this method not very promising for an intracellular transport or an intracellular release or delivery. Most important of all the coupling between the receptor and nucleic acid must be chosen so that the function of one or other is not reduced J Pharmaceutical Science 92 8 1559 1573 2003 .

Fusogenic peptides have been used to enable peptide oligonucleotide conjugates to fuse with the cell membrane and thus effect the transport in the cell Bioconjug Chem 9 466 475 1998 Bioconjug Chem 6 43 53 1995 Nucleic Acids Research 25 2730 2736 1997 .

The selected import of nuclear proteins from the cytosol into the nucleus is mediated by short peptide sequences which are termed nuclear localisation signals NLS . Thus various NLS peptide derivatives can be used in order to transport nucleic acids into the nucleus Bioconjug Chem 10 1005 1012 1999 Bioconjug Chem 10 598 606 1999 Bioconjug Chem 6 101 108 1995 . In addition there are also so called signal import peptides IP which can promote the cellular uptake of nucleic acids and could be derived for example from Kaposi s fibroblast growth factor K FGF Adv Drug Deliv Rev 44 35 49 2000 .

Vesicles similar to viral capsids can be formed by blocks of polypeptides which can serve as possible transport vehicles for an intracellular transport Nat Materials 3 4 244 8 2004 .

The hydrophilic character of oligonucleotides and the anionic phosphodiester backbone reduce the cellular permeation. Lipophilic conjugates are therefore one possible way of increasing the ability of oligonucleotides to bind to lipoproteins and thereby improve intracellular delivery. The conjugate that has been most thoroughly investigated is cholesterol Antisense and Nucleic Acid Drug Development 12 103 128 2002 .

Cyclodextrins are cyclic oligosaccharides which have a central hydrophobic cavity and multiple hydroxyl groups on the outer surface. Cyclodextrins have therefore already been used for the transport of anti sense oligonucleotides in human T cell lines Antisense Res Dev 5 185 192 1995 and have also been used in vivo for intracellular transport and for intracellular release or delivery of immunogenic CpG sequences Biochem Pharmacol 52 1537 1544 1996 . A wide variety of formulations of cyclodextrins are given in the review article by Davis and Brewster Nature Reviews Drug Discovery 3 1023 1035 2004 .

Dendrimers are highly branched macromolecules which are composed of repetitive units of typically polyamides. The molecules carry functional groups such as primary amino groups on their surface which interact with other molecules by electrostatic interaction. A complex structure formation thus takes place rapidly and in a highly reproducible manner which leads to complexes of low cytoxicity Nucleic Acids Research 28 4225 4231 2000 Clin Cancer Res 7 3606 3612 2001 .

Cyanacrylate nanoparticles have been tested since the beginning of the 1990s for the release or delivery of oligonucleotides. The interaction of oligonucleotides with the nanoparticles takes place through ion pairs of the anionic charge of the oligonucleotides with various hydrophobic cations principally with charged nanoparticles. Polyisohexyl cyanoacrylate PIHCA polyisobutyl cyanoacrylate PIBCA or polyhexyl cyanoacrylate PHCA are commonly used for the formation of nanoparticles although a large number of lipophilic cation oligonucleotide pairs have also been tested Pharm Res. 1 1370 1378 1994 PNAS 91 10460 10464 1994 Pharm Res 9 441 449 1992 . Also nanoparticles have already been employed for in vivo use Biochem Biophys Res Commun 279 401 406 2000 Pharm Res 13 38 43 1996 .

Microparticles or so called microspheres are typically formed from biodegradable polymers such as poly d l lactide co glycolides P LA GA and are used for the delayed release of oligonucleotides J Pharm Sci 91 790 799 2000 J Controlled Release 69 197 207 2000 J Drug Target 5 291 302 1998 .

Electroporation is a transport technology which uses a strong electric field in order to destabilise the lipid double membrane and thereby permeabilise the cell membrane and thus effect a transport of the substance to be administered which can also be present in ionised form into the cell iontophoresis . Electroporation has already been successfully used in order to effect transdermal transport of oligonucleotides ex vivo as well as in vivo Int J Pharm 184 147 156 1999 J Drug Target 5 275 289 1998 Pharm Res 15 1596 1602 1998 Int J Cancer 85 260 266 2000 Biochem Biophys Res Commun 212 286 292 1995 Blood 88 731 741 1996 .

The uptake of naked oligonucleotides into cells can be improved in vitro and ex vivo by the use of high pressure. The need for closed systems in order to use this technology means that it can only be used for ex vivo applications PNAS 96 6411 6416 1999 Hum Gene Ther 10 2355 2664 1999 .

Also the use of shockwaves acoustic high pressure pulses effects the transport of oligonucleotides into cells J Mol Med 79 306 313 2001 Cancer Res 58 219 221 1998 . Ultrasound is an acoustic technology comparable to shockwaves but employs higher frequencies MHz instead of Hz and shorter application times from seconds to minutes and has already been used in a supporting role in gene therapy techniques Hum Gene Ther 7 1339 1346 1996 Invest Radiol 32 723 727 1997 Ultrasound Med Bio 25 1451 1457 1999 .

In a further aspect of the present invention a new delivery vehicle is provided which is suitable in particular for the transport of functional nucleic acids such as aptamers preferably functional L nucleic acids and most particularly preferably spiegelmers. The delivery vehicle is in this case a micelle like or liposome like structure based on polyethyleneimine. Without wishing to be too specific in the following description the present inventors start from the assumption that the nucleic acid is present embedded or contained in the micelle like or liposome like structure. Polyethyleneimine can in principle be present and also used as linear or branched polyethyleneimine polyethyleneimine in the branched form being particularly preferred. Moreover polyethyleneimine can exist and can also be used as high molecular weight or low molecular weight polyethyleneimine. Preferably high molecular weight polyethyleneimine has a molecular weight of about 800 kDa and low molecular weight polyethyleneimine has a molecular weight of about 3 kDa. Within the scope of the present invention a polyethyleneimine with a mean molecular weight of about 25 kDa is preferred a branched polyethyleneimine with a molecular weight of about 25 kDa being particularly preferred.

Although it is not essential for an effective implementation it is nevertheless preferred if in the delivery vehicle according to the invention the nucleic acid itself to be delivered also carries a modification. In this connection it is preferred if the modification is selected from the group comprising PEG residues. It is furthermore preferred if the PEG residue has a molecular weight of about 1000 to 10000 Da preferably about 1200 to 5000 Da more preferably about 1500 to 2500 Da and most particularly preferably about 2000 Da.

When mixing the nucleic acid with the delivery vehicle to produce a composition according to the invention the ratio of the total number of nitrogen groups of the polyethyleneimine to the total number of phosphate groups of the nucleic acid to be delivered via or packaged with the delivery vehicle is adjusted to about 1 to 20 preferably about 1.5 to 10 more preferably 2 to 5 and most particularly preferably about 2 to 3.

The delivery vehicle according to the invention thus enables the mechanism of intracellular transport of nucleic acids via condensation or packing with charged particles or reagents and associated change in the charge of the overall complex to be used also for functional nucleic acids such as aptamers and in particular L nucleic acids such as spiegelmers. This complex is readily taken up through endocytosis and thereby passes into the cytosol of the cell. A disadvantage of this method is the stability of the DNA RNA and the release of the nucleic acid from the endosomal compartment. In the cytosol of the cell a lysosome is rapidly formed from the tightly constricted endosome due to the introduction of proteases or nucleases and by protonation of the compartment. There nucleases break down the nucleic acids. This does not apply however to spiegelmers since due to their unnatural configuration these are nuclease stable. Also nucleic acids are not stable in the acidic environment of the lysosome. However this is more true of nucleic acids synthesised from DNA and less true of nucleic acid from RNA. The whole complex is rapidly transported out of the cell again by exocytosis and breakdown in the Golgi apparatus and accordingly only a few nucleic acids pass into the cell. One of the challenges which a suitable transfection system has to overcome is thus the stabilisation as well as the release of the nucleic acid from the endosomes into the cytosol. As regards stability RNA spiegelmers have ideal properties for a transfection of eukaryotic cells since being enantiomers they are not split by enzymes.

The use according to the invention of L nucleic acids and in particular in connection with the composition according to the invention is important specifically for this class of active substances since their action mechanism is based on a stoichiometric approach and not on a catalytic approach in which the intracellular release of just a few molecules is already sufficient to achieve the desired effect. To this extent the present invention satisfies a need that was not hitherto met by the techniques of the prior art.

The transfection system according to the invention that is provided and elaborated by the delivery vehicles according to the invention is based on the formation of micelles from nucleic acids and branched polyethyleneimine PEI . The phosphodiester backbone of the nucleic acids interacts with the free nitrogen positions of the PEI and forms small micelles through cross linking which have a positive charge on account of the PEI. These micelles are readily taken up as endosomes from a cell by constriction of the plasma membrane. The PEI now buffers inflowing protons as a result of which many chloride ions in the interior of the endosome lead to a swelling of the compartment on account of the osmotic pressure. This effect of PEI is described in the literature as the proton sponge effect and ultimately leads to the rupture of the endosome and the release of the spiegelmers into the cytosol. Pharm Res 22 3 373 80 2005 Eur J Cell Biol 83 3 97 111 2004 Gene Ther 9 24 1700 7 2002 .

It is within the scope of the present invention to apply the composition according to the invention as an aerosol.

In addition spiegelmers can be derivatised with signal peptides for intracellular as well as intranuclear delivery and also for organ specific delivery. A coupling of signal peptides directly to the polyethyleneimine can be used for a targeted localisation in organs or within the cell.

In another further aspect the present invention relates to L nucleic acids in particular spiegelmers and more preferably RNA spiegelmers which are directed against HMGA proteins. The spiegelmers disclosed herein directed against HMGA proteins are in particular examples of the knowledge likewise forming the basis of the present invention that L nucleic acids and in particular spiegelmers are able to overcome a phospholipid double membrane or a cytoplasmic membrane of a cell and bind intracellularly with the intracellular receptor for the specific binding to which they have been selected. As regards the configuration of the HMGA proteins and the L nucleic acids directed against the latter the comments made herein regarding the intracellular use of L nucleic acids also apply in connection with the present aspect of the invention and vice versa and is referred to again at this point in order to avoid unnecessary repetitions.

The HMG high mobility group family of DNA binding phosphoproteins are present as non histone components of chromatin throughout mammalian cells Grosschedl et al. 1994 . The basic HMG proteins are sub divided into three different families HMGB formerly HMG 1 2 HMGN formerly HMG 14 17 and the HMGA family formerly HMG I Y C . Each HMG family has its characteristic functional sequence motif the HMG box HMGB family the nucleosomal binding domain HMGN family and the AT hook HMGA family .

According to the current state of knowledge the HMGA family comprises two genes HMGA1 and HMGA2. Three different proteins can be expressed by alternative splicing by HMGA1 HMGA1a formerly HMG I HMGA1b formerly HMG Y HMGA1c formerly HMG I R whereas only one protein HMGA2 formerly HMGI C can be expressed by HMGA2. HMGA1a HMGA1b and HMGA2 are polypeptides of approximately 100 amino acid length and have a modular sequence organisation they possess three strongly basic regions AT hook which bind the narrow small channels of double stranded AT rich DNA Reeves Nissen 1990 . The C terminus on the other hand contains many acidic amino acids. The proteins do not have a stable secondary structure when free in solution and only adopt a defined conformation when they are present in the complex with DNA or other proteins Huth et al 1997 . HMGA proteins belong to the most strongly modified proteins in the mammalian cell nucleus and are phosphorylated acetylated and methylated Reeves Beckerbauer 2001 .

The HMGA proteins per se do not have any transcriptional activity but being so called architectonic transcription factors they organise through their protein protein and protein DNA interactions the formation of the nucleoprotein DNA transcription complex Wolffe 1994 . They thus exert a regulatory activating or inhibitory influence on the expression of a large number of genes. The most prominent example of a positive regulation is the involvement of HMGA1 in the regulation of IFN Thanos Maniatis 1992 . Thus for example in the case of the IFN promoter HMGA1b stimulates the binding of NF B and ATF 2 to the DNA double helix and at the same time alters the DNA structure in such a way that NF B and ATF 2 can interact with one another and presumably also with the rest of the transcription machinery Thanos Maniatis 1992 Du et al 1993 . A further transcription activating effect in connection with arteriosclerotic pathogenesis is the CD44 gene regulation induced by HMGA1 Foster et al 1998 . CD44 is a cell surface glycoprotein and is involved in the migration and proliferation of smooth muscle cells after endothelial damage Jain et al 1996 Cuff et al 2001 . The transcriptional regulation of CD44 is induced by the binding of c Fos and c Jun to the AP 1 binding site in the CD44 promoter and is strengthened by the binding of HMGA1. Investigations in rats has shown that due to CD44 over expression there is an intensified recruitment of smooth muscle cells which has a direct influence on the formation of arteriosclerotic lesions Pellacani et al 1999 Foster et al. 1998 2000 .

Investigations on the expression of the HMGA1 gene localised in the chromosomal band 6p21.3 and of the HMGA2 gene localised in the region 12q14 15 showed that these are mainly active in processes of cell differentiation.

Accordingly a strong expression of these genes can be found during embryo development and in undifferentiated cells Chiappetta et al 1996 as well as in growth factor stimulating cells Friedman et al 1993 Johnson et al 1990 Ogram et al 1995 Holth et al 1997 . In adult differentiated tissue HMGA1 is strongly expressed only in the retina while HMGA2 is not found at all in the other tissues and HMGA1 is found only in very low concentrations Bussemakers et al 1991 Chiappetta et al 1996 Rogalla et al 1996 Zhou et al 1995 Chau et al 2000 . A reactivated expression of HMGA proteins in differentiated normal tissue is at the same time associated with the growth and differentiation of adipocytes Zhou et al 1995 Anand Chada 2000 Melillo et al 2001 the proliferation of smooth muscle cells in the blood vessels after vascular damage Chin et al 1999 in the immune response in inflammatory reactions Pellacani et al 1999 as well as in apoptotic processes Diana et al 2001 Sgarra et al 2003 . The amount of HMGA1 varies in this connection depending on the proliferation rate of the cells Johnson et al 1990 .

During the course of embryo development the HMGA1 expression is concentrated on specific organs of ectodermal mesodermal or endodermal origin whereas HMGA2 is restricted to mesenchymal tissue. Up to now no information exists concerning the phenotype of HMGA1 knockout mice possibly because the lack of this factor has damaged embryo development too severely. HMGA2 knockout mice on the other hand exhibit dwarfism and have particularly little fatty tissue Zhou et al 1995 and furthermore are resistant to diet induced obesity Anand Chada 2000 .

Finally HMGA2 and HMGA1b expression is not detectable in the fatty tissue of normal mice but is dramatically increased in the fat of fatty or diabetic mice Chada et al. 2004 which points to a connection between adiposity obesity and HMGA expression.

Abnormal regulation of HMGA1 could therefore lead to general alterations of gene expression and thereby contribute significantly to the formation of transformed and or metastatic phenotypes.

HMGA protein appear to play different roles in mesenchymal and epithelial tumours in malignant epithelial tumours HMGA expression is associated rather with later stages of carcinogenesis whereas benign tumours more often rarely converting mesenchymal tumours already express HMGA in early hyperplasia. This points to the fact that HMGA proteins in tissues of different embryonic origin fulfil different functions from which also directly follows the corresponding uses of the L nucleic acids according to the invention in the diagnosis and or treatment of corresponding diseases as is also illustrated in more detail hereinafter.

The expression of HMGA1 in various human and animal neoplasms was investigated in animal models. The role of HMGA1 was demonstrated in animal models of tumourigenesis Leman et al 2003 Ram et al 1993 as well as neoplastic progression Bussemakers et al 1991 Nestl et al 2001 Ram et al 1993 .

The precise reason for the increased expression and the role of the HMGA1 gene in the pathogenesis of the tumour and the process of metastasis has still not been fully clarified. Various studies indicate however that the strength of the HMGA1 expression by the respective tumour as a prognostic marker correlates with its metastasing potential and thus represents a characteristic feature of a malignant transformed cell Giancotti et al 1987 .

Further HMGA1 associated in this case benign mesenchymal tumours are characterised by chromosomal changes in the chromosomal HMGA1 region 6p21.3. Such aberrations have up to now been described inter alia in

Aberrations in the genetic mechanisms which control growth and proliferation are the primary cause of carcinogenesis. The expression of HMGA proteins is strongly associated with tumour development as has been shown in a number of articles and papers Giancotti et al. 1987 1989 1993 . Thus a significant HMGA2 expression was found in chemically or virally caused tumours as well as in spontaneously occurring tumours whereas this protein could not be detected in non transformed cells or healthy tissue Giancotti et al. 1989 . In accord with this in the case of cells infected with oncogenic retroviruses in which the synthesis of HMGA2 expression had been specifically blocked various phenotype markers for transformation were absent Berlingieri et al. 1995 .

The key role of HMGA proteins in normal as well as pathological growth has been elucidated in mouse models HMGA2 knockout mice exhibit stunted growth i.e. the animals are ca. 60 smaller than wild type mice. These dwarf mice however have a high resistance to chemically induced skin tumours.

In the last few years structural aberrations of the chromosome region 12q14 15 involving the HMGA2 gene have been found with the aid of cytogenetic investigations for a whole number of benign tumours of mesenchymal origin these being the largest group of harmless neoplasias in man. Despite a large number of aberrations Schoenmakers et al 1995 Kottickal et al 1998 Klotzb chel et al 1999 the altered forms nevertheless always exhibit a common feature they retain all three DNA binding domains but at the same time lose the acidic C terminal domain as well as at the RNA level the information of the 3 UTR.

The main cause of mortality and morbidity in cancer patients is the metastatic spread of the primary neoplasm in the body. Metastasis is not a simple process since a successful colonisation of distant organs by disseminated neoplastic cells has to pass through many stages. Neoplastic cells have to be released from the primary neoplasm enter the bloodstream extravasate to distant sites and finally proliferate again in the parenchyma of the corresponding organ. Many genes which express proteins such as proteases adhesion molecules motility factors and angiogenic factors are involved in the various stages of this highly complex metastatic cascade.

Which of these genes is ultimately decisive as regards metastasis is not known. The HMGA1 gene being one of the most important factors controlling this process is however a likely candidate. The gene products of HMGA1 influence the transcription of many genes that are important for successful metastasis. For example it has already been shown that other metastasis associated genes are themselves expressed at a reduced level in suppression of HMGA1 expression Battista 1998 Vallone 1997 .

HMGA1 is therefore an important therapeutic target molecule. The blockade of HMGA1 is thus in principle suitable for controlling the cancer and preventing its metastatic spread Evans 2004 Sgarra 2004 . Thus for example by using antisense RNAs directed against HMGA transcripts cell proliferation in cancer cells has been reduced in vitro or the cells have even undergone apoptosis Masciullo 2003 Scala 2000 Chau 2003 . It has been shown in animal models that the growth of various pancreatic cancer xenografts is dramatically reduced by gene therapy adoenoviral expression of antisense RNAs directed against HMGA transcripts Trapasso et al 2004 .

HMGA1 could furthermore be used as a prognostic diagnostic marker in order to determine which patients would benefit from an aggressive cancer treatment. There is a close correlation between the degree of the malignant transformation and the amount of expressed HMGA1. This can in turn be correlated with a poor prognosis in many types of human cancer such as prostate cancer Tamimi 1996 Bussemakers 1991 and colorectal carcinoma Abe 1999 and neuroblastoma Giannini 2000 .

HMGA proteins are used by many viruses as well as by control factors provided by the host cell for the expression of viral genes or as co factors inter alia by

In particular HMGA proteins are involved in the regulation of the transcription of a large number of viral genes in a host cell. Examples of this are the regulation of the expression of the early and late expressed genes of the human papovavirus JC Leger et al. 1995 regulation of the EBNA1 Epstein Barr virus nuclear antigen 1 gene of the Epstein Bar virus EBV which is jointly responsible for controlling viral latency Schaefer et al. 1997 regulation of the IE 3 immediate early gene of the Herpes simplex Virus 1 HSV 1 which codes the prematurely expressed protein ICP4 Panagiotidis et al. 1999 regulation of the promoter 2 active during the latency phase of HSV 1 French et al. 1996 and regulation of the LTR long terminal repeats promoter of the humane HIV 1 virus Henderson et al 2000 .

The requisition of HMGA by the host cell in the context of viral diseases is not only restricted to viral gene regulation. HMGA1 also appears to play a decisive role as architectonic co factor in the integration of the viral DNA of the HIV 1 virus of the Moloney murine leukaemia virus MoMuLv and sarcoma bird flu virus ASV into the human genome and therefore appears to be an interesting therapeutic approach in antiviral treatment Van Maele et al. 2006 Li et al 1998 Hindmarsh et al. 1999 .

Inhibitors of HMGA proteins are therefore also suitable for the treatment and diagnosis of virus infections Reeves Beckerbauer 2002 .

As a result of the previously demonstrated involvement of HMGA proteins in various diseases and their suitability as diagnostic markers L nucleic acids and in particular spiegelmers directed against these proteins can be used for the prevention treatment and diagnosis of the above diseases. Particularly preferred spiegelmers are in this connection the spiegelmers described herein. In this connection it is recognised by those skilled in the art that although the individual spiegelmers have been developed for a specific HMGA protein as a result of the domain approach illustrated in Example 2 these also allow a cross reactivity with other HMGA proteins which can be seen from the alignment illustrated in .

Furthermore it is recognised by those skilled in the art in this field that the nucleic acids according to the invention contain a number of structural motifs which define a class of spiegelmers that bind as intracellular receptors to HMGA proteins. The various structural motifs are illustrated in more detail in Example 1.

The nucleic acids according to the invention comprise in a preferred embodiment also those nucleic acids which are substantially homologous to the sequences specifically disclosed herein. The term substantially homologous should preferably be understood in this connection to mean that the homology is at least 75 preferably 85 more preferably 90 and most preferably more than 95 96 97 98 or 99 .

The term nucleic acids according to the invention or nucleic acids according to the present invention should furthermore be understood to include also those nucleic acids which comprises nucleic acid sequences such as are described herein or parts thereof preferably to the extent that the nucleic acids or the said parts thereof are involved in the binding to HMGA proteins. Such a nucleic acid can be derived from those disclosed herein for example by shortening or truncation. A shortening can involve either one or both ends of the nucleic acids as are disclosed herein. A shortening can also involve the inner sequence of nucleotides i.e. can involve nucleotide s between the 5 and the 3 terminal nucleotides. Furthermore the term shortening should also be understood as referring to the deletion of as few as one individual nucleotide from the sequence of the nucleic acids disclosed herein. Shortening can also involve more than one region of the nucleic acid s according to the invention in which connection each of these regions may be as small as one nucleotide long.

The nucleic acids according to the present invention may furthermore be either D nucleic acids or L nucleic acids. Preferably the nucleic acids according to the invention are L nucleic acids. In addition it is possible that one or more parts of the nucleic acid is are present as D nucleic acids or that at least one or more parts of the nucleic acids is are L nucleic acids. The term part of the nucleic acids is understood to denote as little as one nucleotide. Such nucleic acids are generally referred to herein as D nucleic acids or L nucleic acids.

Accordingly in a preferred embodiment the nucleic acids according to the present invention consist of L nucleotides and include at least one D nucleotide. Such a D nucleotide is preferably fixed to a part that is different from the region or regions that define the nucleic acids according to the present invention and is preferably fixed to those parts thereof which are involved in an interaction with other parts of the nucleic acids. Preferably such a D nucleotide is fixed to the end of each region or to each nucleic acid according to the present invention. In a preferred embodiment such D nucleotides can act as a spacer or a linker which preferably binds modifications such as PEG and HES to the nucleic acids according to the present invention.

Within the scope of the present invention in one embodiment the nucleic acids according to the invention also include those acids which are part of a longer nucleic acid wherein these longer nucleic acids can include several parts at least one part being a nucleic acid according to the present invention or a part thereof. The other part or the other parts of these longer nucleic acids can either be a D nucleic acid or a L nucleic acid. Any combination can be used in conjunction with the present invention and for the purposes and uses such as have been described herein for the nucleic acids according to the invention. This other part or these other parts of the longer nucleic acid can have a function that is different from the binding function and in particular from the binding to HMGA protein. A possible function is to allow an interaction with other molecules e.g. for the purposes of immobilisation cross linking detection amplification modification or increasing the molecular weight.

In particular in this connection L nucleic acids as used herein are nucleic acids which consist of L nucleotides and preferably consist completely of L nucleotides.

Accordingly in particular D nucleic acids as used herein are nucleic acids which consist of D nucleotides and preferably consist completely of D nucleotides.

Irrespective of whether the nucleic acid according to the invention consists of D nucleotides L nucleotides or a combination of the two the combination being for example a random combination or a defined sequence of regions which consist of at least one L nucleotide and at least one D nucleic acid the nucleic acid can consist of one or more deoxyribonucleotides ribonucleotides and combinations thereof.

In a further aspect the present invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition which consists of at least one of the nucleic acids according to the invention in combination with one or more other nucleic acids in which the other nucleic acid s preferably binds to target molecules other than HMGA protein or exerts a function different to that of the nucleic acids according to the invention.

The construction of the nucleic acids according to the invention as L nucleic acids is advantageous for several reasons. L nucleic acids are enantiomers of naturally occurring nucleic acids. D nucleic acids are however not very stable in aqueous solutions and in particular in biological systems and in biological samples on account of the extensive presence of nucleases. Naturally occurring nucleases in particular nucleases from animal cells are not able to break down L nucleic acids. As a result of this the biological half life of the L nucleic acid in such a system including the human and animal body is significantly increased. On account of the lack of degradability of L nucleic acids no nuclease breakdown products are produced and thus no resultant side effects are observed. This aspect in fact demarcates L nucleic acids from all other compounds that are used in the treatment of diseases and or disorders and include the presence of HMGA or its causal involvement. L nucleic acids that bind specifically to a target molecule through a mechanism different from the Watson Crick base pairing or aptamers which consist partly or completely of L nucleic acids in particular those parts of the aptamer that are involved in the binding of the aptamer to the target molecule are termed spiegelmers.

It is also within the scope of the present invention for the nucleic acids according to the invention to be in the form of single strand or double strand nucleic acids regardless of whether they are present as D nucleic acids L nucleic acids or D L nucleic acids and whether they are DNA or RNA. Typically the nucleic acids according to the invention are single strand nucleic acids which on account of the primary sequence contain defined secondary structures and can therefore also form tertiary structures. The nucleic acids according to the invention may however also be double stranded in the sense that two strands which are complementary or partly complementary to one another are hybridised with one another. This imparts stability to the nucleic acids which becomes important particularly if the nucleic acid exists in the naturally occurring D form instead of the L form.

The nucleic acids according to the invention can be modified. Such modifications can involve individual nucleotides of the nucleic acid and are well known in the prior art. Examples of such a modification are described inter alia in Venkatesan N. et al. 2003 Curr Med. Chem. October 10 19 1973 91 Kusser W. 2000 J Biotechnol 74 27 38 Aurup H. et al. 1994 22 20 4 Cummins L. L. et al 1995 23 2019 24 Eaton B. E. et al. 1995 2 633 8 Green L. S. et al. 1995 2 683 95 Kawasaki A. M. et al. 1993 36 831 41 Lesnik E. A. et al. 1993 32 7832 8 Miller L. E. et al. 1993 469 213 43. Such a modification may for example be an H atom a F atom or a O CHgroup or NHgroup at the 2 position of an individual nucleotide that is contained in the nucleic acid. Furthermore the nucleic acid according to the present invention can include at least one LNA nucleotide. In one embodiment the nucleic acid according to the present invention consists of LNA nucleotides and preferably completely of LNA nucleotides.

In one embodiment the nucleic acids according to the present invention can be a multi part nucleic acid. A multi part nucleic acid as used herein is a nucleic acid that consists of at least two nucleic acid strands. These at least two nucleic acid strands form a functional unit the functional unit being a ligand for a target molecule. The at least two nucleic acid strands can be derived from one of the nucleic acids according to the invention either by cleavage of the nucleic acid in order to produce two strands or by synthesis from a nucleic acid corresponding to a first part of the total nucleic acid i.e. nucleic acid according to the invention and a further nucleic acid corresponding to the second part of the total nucleic acid. It is recognised that cleavage as well as synthesis can be used in order to produce a multi part nucleic acid where more than the two strands described above by way of example can be present. In other words the at least two nucleic acid strands are preferably different from two strands that are complementary to one another and hybridise with one another although a complementarity can exist to a certain extent between the various nucleic acid parts.

The present inventors have established that the nucleic acids according to the present invention have a very advantageous Kvalue range or dissociation value range and therefore a very advantageous binding constant. One way of determining the binding constant is to use an equilibrium binding assay as is described in Example 1.

The Kvalue of the nucleic acids according to the invention is preferably less than 1 M. A Kvalue of about 1 M should be characteristic of a non specific binding of a nucleic acid to a target. As will be recognised by those skilled in the art the Kvalue of a group of compounds such as for example the nucleic acids according to the present invention varies within a certain range. The Kof about 1 M mentioned above is a preferred upper limiting value for the Kvalue. The preferred lower limiting value for the Kof nucleic acids binding the target molecule can be about picomolar or less. It is within the scope of the present invention for the Kvalues of the individual nucleic acids which bind to HMGA preferably to lie within this range. Preferred ranges can be selected by choosing a first number within this range and a second number within this range. Preferred upper values are 0.25 M 0.1 M and preferred lower values are 100 nM 10 nM 1 nM and 0.05 nM.

The nucleic acids according to the invention preferably bind to HMGA1b at 37 C. in solution with a dissociation constant K

The nucleic acids according to the present invention can be of arbitrary length provided that they are still able to bind to the target molecule. It is recognised in the prior art that specific lengths of the nucleic acids according to the present invention are preferred. Typically the length is between 15 and 120 nucleotides. It is also recognised by those skilled in the art that any whole number between 15 and 120 is a preferred possible length for the nucleic acids according to the present invention. Preferred ranges for the length of the nucleic acids according to the present invention are lengths of about 20 to 100 nucleotides about 20 to 80 nucleotides about 20 to 60 nucleotides about 20 to 50 nucleotides and about 30 to 50 nucleotides.

In one embodiment the nucleic acids according to the invention are present in modified form. A particularly preferred form of modification is PEGylation. In this the modification of the nucleic acids according to the invention involves coupling with polyethylene glycol PEG or other groups.

On account of the high stability of the nucleic acids according to the invention in particular in the embodiment in which these exist as L nucleic acids it is possible to administer the nucleic acids according to the invention directly to a patient requiring such a treatment. Preferably the nucleic acids according to the invention are prepared as a physiological solution for topical or systemic application.

Apart from the direct use of the nucleic acids according to the invention for the treatment prevention and diagnosis of the diseases described herein these can be present or used individually or in combination with others in a pharmaceutical composition. The pharmaceutical composition according to the present invention accordingly comprises at least one of the nucleic acids according to the present invention and preferably a pharmaceutically acceptable binder. Such a binder may be any known binder or one known in the field. In particular such a binder is any binder as is described in connection with the production of the medicament as disclosed herein. In a further embodiment the pharmaceutical composition includes a further pharmaceutically active agent. It is within the scope of the present invention for the medicament described herein to constitute the pharmaceutical composition as is described herein.

Preferably the pharmaceutical composition is intended for intravenous administration. It is however also within the scope of the present invention for such pharmaceutical compositions to be administered intramuscularly intraperitoneally or subcutaneously. Other administration routes are orally or intranasally in which connection that form of administration is preferred that is least invasive but at the same time retains the effectiveness of the pharmaceutical composition and the pharmaceutically active agent.

The nucleic acids according to the invention are preferably contained as such or in connection with the pharmaceutical composition according to the invention dissolved in a pharmaceutically acceptable solvent. Such solvents are in particular those that are selected from the group comprising water physiological saline PBS or a glucose solution in particular a 5 glucose solution. Such a carrier can be for example water buffer PBS glucose solution preferably a 5 glucose solution iso osmotic starch sugars gelatin or any other acceptable carrier substance. Such carriers are generally known to those skilled in the art in this field.

It is within the scope of the present invention for the pharmaceutical composition to contain at least one of the nucleic acids according to the invention in its various embodiments including but not restricted thereto the nucleic acid as conjugate as described herein.

In a further embodiment the medicament comprises a further pharmaceutically active agent. Such further pharmaceutical active agents are for example protease inhibitors proliferation inhibitors and angiogenesis inhibitors and or agents that have a cytostatic effect. Alternatively or in addition such a further pharmaceutically active agent is a further nucleic acid according to the present invention. Alternatively the medicament comprises at least one or more nucleic acids that bind to a target molecule that is different from HMGA or has a function that is different from one of the nucleic acids according to the present invention.

The pharmaceutical composition according to the present invention can be used for the treatment diagnosis and or prevention of each of the diseases or disorders described herein.

In a further aspect the present invention relates to a method for the treatment of a living organism requiring such a treatment wherein the method includes the administration of a pharmaceutically active amount of at least one of the nucleic acids according to the present invention. In one embodiment the living organism suffers from a disease or there is a risk that it will suffer from such a disease the disease being one of those mentioned herein in particular a disease that is described in connection with the use of one of the nucleic acids according to the present invention for the production of a medicament.

Although the use of the nucleic acids according to the invention already follows from the involvement illustrated above of HMGA proteins in the various diseases and states this aspect will be discussed further hereinafter for illustrative purposes.

HMGA proteins and their genes have in particular become increasingly involved in the diagnosis and prognosis of neoplastic diseases and have been proposed as potential biomarkers. In healthy tissue the expression level of HMGA1a b proteins is very low if detectable at all. Raised HMGA1a b protein expression is characteristic of the phenotype of a large number of tumours and metastases of very many types of cancer Sarhadi et al. 2006 Balcercak et al. 2005 Briese et al. 2006 Chang et al. 2005 Peters et al. 2005 Sato et al. 2005 Chiappetta et al. 2004 Li et al. 2004 Chuma et al. 2004 Donato et al. 2004 Czyz et al. 2004 Kettunen et al. 2004 Lee et al. 2004 Chen et al. 2004 Abe et al. 2003 Blacerczak et al. 2003 Flohr et al. 2003 Masciullo et al. 2003 Nam et al. 2003 Pierantoni et al. 2003 . High HMGA protein expression correlates significantly with a poor prognosis and the formation of metastases. The detection of the HMGA1a b expression level in biopsies and its histological characterisation is a diagnostic approach to the early detection prognosis and identification of neoplastic diseases in particular the diseases and conditions discussed hereinbefore.

Furthermore an association between HMGA1 proteins and arteriosclerotic plaques is described in the literature Schlueter et al. 2005 . HMGA1 regulates CD44 one of the principal target genes for the formation of plaques. In this connection it was found compared to the surrounding tissue that the affected regions such as neo intimal vascular smooth muscle cells macrophages and new blood vessels have a high expression of HMGA1. HMGA1 appears therefore to be one of the mediators in the formation of plaque and is thus a target molecule for diagnostic purposes.

The L nucleic acids described here and in particular the spiegelmers which bind HMGA1a b can within the scope of the methods known to the person skilled in the art be used in a similar way to antibodies. Up to now only very few specific differentiating and affine antibodies against HMGA1 have been identified and are commercially obtainable. This appears to be due to the non existent secondary structure of HMGA1 which is not a suitable target for the MHC complex in the generation of antibodies.

Against this background it was however surprisingly found that the biotinylated HMGA1a b binding spiegelmer 5 bio NOX A50 recognises in the western blot procedure HMGA1a b as individual bands in cancer cell lines. Furthermore as described in Example 2 recombinantly expressed HMGA1b protein could be detected. The detection of the biotinylated spiegelmer is carried out for example by an anti biotin antibody conjugated by means of horseradish peroxidase HRP .

The in vivo diagnosis of HMGA1a b is a further approach in which the nucleic acids according to the invention can be used. Tumours and metastases are often embedded in necrotic tumour cells which release HMGA1a b to the surrounding tissue. The detection of the extracellular HMGA1a b is one approach to the diagnosis of tumours and metastases embedded in healthy tissue.

As preferably used herein a diagnostic tool or diagnostic agent or diagnostic means is able to detect either directly or indirectly an HMGA protein preferably HMGA1a b as described herein and preferably HMGA1a b as described herein in connection with the various disorders and diseases. The diagnostic tool is suitable for detecting and or searching for any of the diseases and conditions described herein. Such a detection is possible by the binding of the nucleic acids according to the present invention to HMGA1a b. Such a binding can be detected either directly or indirectly. The corresponding methods and means are known to those skilled in the art in this field. The nucleic acids according to the present invention can inter alia be labelled which permits the detection of the nucleic acids according to the present invention preferably the nucleic acid that is bound or can bind to HMGA protein and preferably HMGA1a b. Such a labelling is preferably selected from the group comprising radioactive enzymatic and fluorescence labelling. In principle all known tests that have been developed for antibodies can be adapted to the nucleic acids according to the present invention the target molecule binding antibody being replaced by a target molecule binding nucleic acid. In antibody tests which employ unlabelled target molecule binding antibodies the detection is preferably performed with a secondary antibody which has been modified with radioactive enzymatic or fluorescence labels and binds to the target molecule binding antibody at its Fc fragment. In the case of a nucleic acid preferably a nucleic acid according to the present invention the nucleic acid is modified with such a label the said label preferably being selected from the group consisting of biotin CY 3 and CY 5 and such a label is detected by an antibody directed against such a label for example an anti biotin antibody an anti CY 3 antibody or an anti CY 5 antibody or in the case where the label is biotin the label is detected by streptavidin or avidin which naturally binds to biotin. Such an antibody i.e. streptavidin or avidin is in turn preferably modified with a corresponding label for example a radioactive enzymatic or fluorescence label similarly to a secondary antibody.

In a further embodiment the nucleic acids according to the present invention are detected or analysed by a second detection agent this detection agent being a molecular beacon. The technique of molecular beacons is known to those skilled in the art in this field. In brief these molecular beacons are nucleic acid probes which are a reverse complement of the nucleic acid probe to be detected and accordingly hybridise with a part of the nucleic acid probe to be detected. After the binding of the nucleic acid probe the fluorophore groups of the molecular beacon are separated from one another which leads to a change in the fluorescence signal preferably a change in intensity. This change correlates with the amount of nucleic acid probe that is present.

It is within the scope of the present invention that the nucleic acids according to the invention can appropriately be used as L nucleic acids within the scope of the various aspects disclosed herein.

The nucleic acids according to the invention can furthermore be used as starting material for the design of pharmaceutical active substances drug design . In principle there are two possible approaches to this problem. One approach consists in screening libraries of compounds wherein such libraries of compounds are preferably libraries of low molecular weight compounds low or small molecules . Such libraries are known to those skilled in the art in this field. In one embodiment the screening is a high throughput screening. Preferably high throughput screening is fast efficient and is carried out as a trial and error evaluation of active substances in a target molecule based assay.

Alternatively according to the present invention the nucleic acids can be used for the rational design of active substances. Preferably the rational design of active substances is the design of a pharmaceutical active substance candidate. Starting from the three dimensional structure of the target molecule which is normally determined by methods such as X ray structure analysis or nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy NMR computer programs are used to search through data banks containing structures of a large number of different chemical compounds. The selection is carried out by computer. The selected compounds are in addition tested in the laboratory.

The rational design of active substances can take as its starting point any of the nucleic acids according to the present invention and comprises a structure in particular a three dimensional structure which is similar to the structure of the nucleic acid s according to the invention or is identical to that part of the structure of the nucleic acid s according to the invention that mediates the binding to HMG proteins. In any case such a structure also exhibits the same or at least a similar binding behaviour to the nucleic acid s according to the invention. In either a further step or as an alternative step in the rational design of active substances the preferably three dimensional structure of those parts of the nucleic acids binding to HMG proteins is imitated by chemical groups which are preferably different to nucleotides and nucleic acids. By means of this imitation also termed mimicry a compound can be constructed which is different from the nucleic acid or the nucleic acids which was were used as starting materials for the rational design of the active substance. Such a compound or active substance is preferably a small molecule or a peptide.

In the case of screening libraries of compounds using competitive tests which are known to those skilled in the art in the field suitable HMG analogues HMG agonists and HMG antagonists can be found. Such competitive assays can be designed as follows. The nucleic acid according to the invention preferably a spiegelmer i.e. a L nucleic acid binding the target molecule is coupled to a preferably solid phase. In order to identify HMG analogues a labelled HMG protein is added to the test system. Alternatively the HMG protein could also be coupled to a solid phase and the nucleic acid according to the invention could be labelled. A potential analogue or a potential agonist or antagonist would compete with the HMG molecules which bind to the spiegelmer which would result in a decrease in the signal received from the corresponding label. The screening for agonists or antagonists can include the use of a cell culture test system which is known to those skilled in the art in the field.

In a further aspect the nucleic acids according to the invention can on account of their characteristic binding behaviour to HMG protein be used for target target molecule validation. The nucleic acids according to the invention can be used in an ex vivo organ model in order to study the function of HMG protein. In principle there exist ex vivo models in which HMG agonists antagonists can be tested.

A kit according to the present invention can comprise at least one or more of the nucleic acids according to the invention. In addition the kit can include at least one or more positive or negative controls. HMG protein against which the nucleic acid according to the invention has been screened or to which this binds preferably in liquid form can be used as positive control. As negative control there can be used inter alia a peptide that behaves as regards its biophysical properties similarly to HMG protein but which is not recognised by the nucleic acids according to the invention or a peptide can be used having the same amino acid composition but a different sequence to HMG protein.

Furthermore the kit can include one or more buffers. The various constituents can be present in the kit in dry or lyophilised form or dissolved in a liquid. The kit can include one or more containers which in turn can contain one or more of the constituents of the kit. Preferably the vessels contain reaction batches such as are necessary for a single execution of an experiment using one or more constituents of the kit.

It will be acknowledged that unless stated to the contrary the sequences listed herein are given in the 5 3 direction. It will furthermore be seen that the term the two sections hybridise with one another is understood herein to mean that the sections can hybridise in vitro on the basis of general base pairing rules or that the sections hybridise or can hybridise under the conditions of use but are not necessarily hybridised with one another or are present in hybridised form under the conditions of use.

The various SEQ. ID. the chemical structure of the nucleic acids as disclosed herein and the target molecule HMGA1a 1b as used herein the actual sequences and the internal references are summarised in the following table.

It is within the scope of the present invention that if no sequences are explicitly given for the individual sections of the nucleic acids according to the invention these can be freely chosen according to the technical teaching disclosed herein i.e. can be chosen so that they exhibit the necessary binding behaviour to the respective target molecule and or are able to form the structures in particular secondary structures described herein.

Furthermore it is within the scope of preferred embodiments of the present invention that in the case where in sequences that are identified as RNA sequences T is given instead of U then T shall denote U.

The HMGA1a b binding RNA spiegelmers were generated by in vitro selection against 21AS HMGA1a b and subsequent shortening steps. The generated aptamers which bind the 21AS HMGA1a b domain are shown in .

The different clones see were prepared as aptamers RNA by means of standard phosphoramidite synthesis and were radioactively labelled at the 5 end by kinasing see below . The clones were then analysed as regards their affinity and activity by means of equilibrium binding assay at two concentrations of bio 21aa HMGA1a b.

The reaction ran for 1 hour at 37 C. and was then stopped by heating 10 minutes at 65 C. . The separation of radioactive nucleotides from labelled oligonucleotides was carried out by an analytical polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis PAGE see hereinafter . A crush and soak gel elution was then carried out with ammonium acetate and precipitation with ethanol see hereinafter . The amount of purified RNA was estimated from the radioactivity of the pellets after the precipitation compared to the radioactivity of the cut out strip.

For the preparative purification of oligonucleotides to 2 volumes of concentrated sample buffer for denaturing PAGE were added to the reaction batches. In addition large scale standards were prepared as necessary each 250 pmole and taken up in sample buffer. The batches were denatured for 5 minutes at 95 C. and cooled on ice. A preparative denaturing 7 or 10 PAA gel 200 200 1.5 mm was preheated ca. 1 hour by applying a maximum voltage of 600 V at 40 50 W. After rinsing the cups with 1 TBE the samples were plotted. After completion of the separation 50 minutes at 50 W the gel was placed on a fluorescing thin layer chromatography plate protected by transparent film dye 60F . The bands were visualised as shadows UV shadowing by means of UV light 254 nm and were cut out with a scalpel. A crush and soak gel elution with ammonium acetate was then performed.

To elute oligonucleotides from PAA gels after comminuting the cut out PAA gel strips 500 l of ammonium acetate 2 M was added using a pipette tip or a spatula. The crush and soak elution was carried out 2 1.5 hours at 68 C. in a thermoshaker 1000 rpm . The supernatants were freed from gel residues by Ultrafree MC small columns Millipore Amicon Schwalbach Germany in a table centrifuge 16 100 g . The RNA eluted in this way was then desalted by precipitation with ethanol.

For the ethanol precipitation 1 2 l of glycogen were used as precipitation auxiliary. After adding 2.5 volumes of absolute ethanol and vortexing the oligonucleotides were precipitated for 30 minutes at 80 C. and centrifuged off for 30 minutes at 16 100 g 4 C. The pellet was washed once with 70 ethanol and centrifuged for 5 minutes at 16 100 g 4 C.

2 pmole of each of the 5 radioactively labelled aptamers were complexed in biotinyl HMGA1a b 21mer EPSEVPTPKRPRGRPKGSKNK Seq. ID. 17 see produced by Bachem Weil am Rhein Germany . Solutions in the concentration range 1 3000 nM or for the two point measurement with 300 nM and 30 nM or 100 nM and 10 nM peptide were incubated for 1 hour at 37 C. in selection buffer 10 mM Tris HCl pH7.4 5 mM KCl 0.8 mM MgCl 0.1 Tween . A solution without biotinylated HMGA1a b 21mer served as background control. The peptide and complexes were then immobilised within 30 minutes at 37 C. with 10 l of streptavidin UltraLink gel. The radioactivity of the suspension was measured. The supernatant was removed. The matrix was then washed once with 100 l of selection buffer and then precipitated with selection buffer. By measuring the radioactivity the aptamer fraction present together with biotinyl HMGA1a b 21mer in the complex was determined for each peptide concentration. The dissociation constants of the active species and the proportion of active molecules were determined by graphical plotting and fit GraFit Version 4.0.10 Erithacus Software .

For all clones synthesised as aptamers RNA a dissociation constant for the binding to the 21 amino acid long D fragment of HMGA1a b Biotinyl D HMGA1a b 21mer of 8 22 nM was determined in the equilibrium binding assay .

All selection candidates exhibited a repetitively occurring sequence motif GGGCG or GGGUG or GGGAG which is stabilised at the 5 end and at the 3 end by a helix stem motif .

An analysis of the probable structure and precipitation of the RNA aptamers according to Zuker Nucleic Acids Res. 2003 Jul. 1 31 13 3406 15 showed that the predetermined stem helix structure had lengthened in some cases 132 C3 132 B3 132 C4 132 E2 132 A2 132 H1 132 F1 122 G2 122 E2 see . This stem Helix structure formed the basis for the further shortening of these candidates. This further shortening of the candidates was carried out by identifying and stabilising the minimal binding motif by precipitation analysis followed by deletion analysis of the synthetic RNAs with respect to the binding to the HMGA1a b fragment. These binding properties were determined by equilibrium binding assay. shows by way of example in the candidate NOX f 132 B3 the shortening of the aptamer on the basis of the stabilising stem structure which can be found in lengthened form in the candidates 132 C3 132 B3 132 C4 132 E2 132 A2 132 H1 132 F1 122 G2 122 E2 see . A shortening to a 32 nucleotide long aptamer variant of NOX f with a 6 nucleotide long stem NOX f 32 nt did not lead to any loss of the binding properties to the 21aa HMGA1a b fragment . The artificial insertion of an adenosine at the third position of the 5 position stem led to a theoretical formation of a 7 nucleotide long stem without a looped out region and served to complete the stem in the 3 region NOX f 33 nt . The measurement of the binding properties affinity and activity by means of equilibrium binding assay on the 21 amino acid long domain of HMGA1a b was not influenced by these changes.

The sequences 132 G2 122 A1 122 C1 122 B2 and 122 B4 have on the other hand at the 5 end and 3 end of the repetitively occurring sequence motif GGGCG or GGGUG or GGGAG a significantly shorter stem structure. A shortening of the stem structure led to a binding loss. A possible shortening of the central region which is longer for these sequences between the repetitive sequence motif GGGCG or GGGUG or GGGAG was not carried out.

The Seq. IDs of the aptamer sequences of the HMGA binding nucleic acids disclosed herein are as follows 

As has already been discussed herein and is known to those skilled in the art in this field the enantiomer consisting of L nucleotides of an aptamer i.e. of a D nucleic acid which was generated against a D peptide binds to the mirror image enantiomer of the D peptide i.e. the naturally occurring L peptide. This L nucleic acid is herein also referred to as spiegelmer and otherwise exhibits in principle the same binding properties as the aptamer.

A repetitive sequence element of the sequence GGGCG or GGGUG or GGGAG is characteristic of all spiegelmers that bind to HMGA1a b. This sequence element appears twice in HMGA1a b binding spiegelmers . The sequence element lying closer to the 5 end of the spiegelmers is herein referred to as Box A1. The sequence element lying closer to the 3 end of the spiegelmers is on the other hand referred to herein as Box A2. Box A1 and Box A2 and their mutual arrangement probably represent the decisive feature of HMGA1a b binding spiegelmers.

Between Box A1 and Box A2 there is either a sequence section with a length of six to seven nucleic acids or 12 to 22 nucleotides . Since these sequence sections differ not only in their length they are discussed separately.

If the sequence section lying between Box A1 and Box A2 has a length of six nucleotides then the sequence section exhibits the sequence UGGUUG UGGCUG CGGUUG AGGUUG or GUGUAA. An insertion of one nucleotide uracil into the sequence CGGUUG which leads to the sequence CGGUUUG has neither a negative nor a positive influence on the binding properties of the spiegelmers.

If the sequence section lying between Box A1 and Box A2 has a length of 12 to 22 nucleotides then this sequence section comprises two sequence regions of equal length which can possibly hybridise with one another Helix C . The hybridisation is in this case effected by in each case three to six nucleotides. Three to five unpaired nucleotides are located between the nucleotides forming the Helix C. One to three nucleotides are present unpaired between the 3 end of Box A1 and the 5 end of Helix C. One to five nucleotides can be present unpaired between the 3 end of Helix C and the 5 end of Box A2.

All HMGA1a b binding spiegelmers are characterised at their 5 and 3 ends by sequence sections which can hybridise with one another Helix A1 and Helix A2 . The number of nucleotides hybridising with one another in each case can vary from four to eight. In this connection this presumably double strand region can extend to the 5 end of Box A1 and the 3 end of Box A2. Should this not be the case then Box A1 and Box A2 can be flanked by nucleotides that additionally hybridise with one another Helix B1 and Helix B2 . This can involve regions of in each case four to eight nucleotides .

Within the scope of the invention forming the basis of the present application various classes of nucleic acids and in particular L nucleic acids which bind to the target molecule have been identified. The following illustration and description of these classes which are herein also termed cases is to this extent an integral part of the present invention. For each class their principal structure and exemplary L nucleic acids for this class are specified hereinafter using the respective abbreviations of the L nucleic acids.

Helix A1 and Helix A2 in each case four to eight nucleotides which completely or partly hybridise with one another in which the sum of the in each case mutually hybridising nucleotides of Helix A1 and Helix A2 and Helix B1 and Helix B2 is 10 to 12 nucleotides 

Helix B1 and Helix B2 in each case four to eight nucleotides which hybridise with one another in which the sum of the in each case mutually hybridising nucleotides of Helix A1 and Helix A2 and Helix B1 and Helix B2 is 10 to 12 nucleotides.

The molecules are active also after the shortening at the 5 end and at the 3 end. After the removal of the Helix A1 and A2 as well as the regions NN7 and GNthe shortened molecules retain their binding properties. This was demonstrated for the shortened variants 132 B3 32 nt NOX f 32 nt and 132 B3 33 nt NOX f 33 nt see .

Helix A1 and Helix A2 in each case five to six nucleotides which completely or partly hybridise with one another 

2.1 Determination of the Interaction of HMGA1a b Spiegelmers and Recombinant HMGA1b in the Competition Assay

The BD Freedom ORF clone GH00552L1.0 high mobility group AT hook1 with the sequence coding for HMGA1b was purchased from BioCat Heidelberg. The sequence had already been changed therein so that the stop codon is converted into a codon coding for leucine in order to permit C terminal fusions. The sequence of the clone corresponds generally to the sequence stored in the RefSeq data bank under No. NM002131. The sequence coding for HMGA1b was amplified by means of a standard PCR with the primers HMG fwd1 TCGACACCATGGGTGAGTC Seq. ID 34 and HMG rev1 GTCTAGAAAGCTTCCCAACTG Seq. ID 35 . In this connection the base after ATG was changed from A to G in order thereby to introduce a NcoI interface. The PCR product was cleaved according to the manufacturer s instructions with the restriction enzymes NcoI and HindIII both from NEB Frankfurt am Main Germany and purified via an agarose gel. The vector pHO2d Fasshauer et al. 1997 J. Biol. Chem. 272 28036 28041 was similarly cleaved with NcoI and HindIII and purified via an agarose gel. The Vector pHO2d permits the expression of a protein fused to the C terminal end with a sequence of six histidine residues His6 tag under the control of a T7 promoter Fasshauer et al. 1997 JBC 272 28036 .

The purified and cleaved PCR product was ligated into the prepared vector overnight at 15 C. with the aid of a T4 ligase corresponding to the manufacturer s instructions MBI Fermentas St. Leon Roth Germany . Bacteria of strain DH5 were transformed with the ligation product. The correctness of the plasmids from obtained colonies was checked by sequencing. The fusion protein HMGA1b His6 coded by pHO2d HMGA1b has compared to the natural HMGA1b protein a glycine G instead of serine S at position 2 and after the C terminal glutamine Q a leucine L see above followed by five further amino acids G S L N S coded by the vector to which the six histidines H are joined.

For the expression of the fusion protein bacteria of strain BL21 were transformed with the plasmid pHO2d HMGA1b. The expression of the fusion protein was induced with isopropylthio D galactoside IPTG . After 4 hours the bacteria were centrifuged off for 15 minutes at 10 000 g and the pellet was stored at 20 C. until further use.

For the extraction of the fusion protein 25 ml of extraction buffer 1 n octyl D thioglucopyranoside OTG in 50 mM NaPObuffer pH 8.0 250 mM NaCl 10 mM imidazole and MiniProtease inhibitor tablets Roche Mannheim Germany 5 hrs 50 ml were added to a frozen bacteria pellet from 500 ml of culture followed by 5 l of benzonase grade1 MERCK Darmstadt Germany homogenised by pipetting and pipetting off and incubated for 5 min at RT. This was followed by centrifugation for 15 mins at 10 000 g RT . The supernatant was filtered through a fluted filter and then added to a HIS SELECT column HIS SELECT Cartridge Sigma Deisenhofen Germany equilibrated with wash buffer 50 mM NaPObuffer pH 8.0 250 mM NaCl 10 mM imidazole all from MERCK Darmstadt Germany . After washing the column with 10 15 ml of wash buffer the fusion protein was eluted with elution buffer 250 mM imidazole in wash buffer in 0.5 1 ml size fractions. Protein containing fractions were checked for purity by means of gel electrophoresis 16 polyacrylamide gel according to Sch ger Jagow 1987 Anal. Biochem. 166 368 379 . Fractions with fusion protein were purified if necessary dialysed using a suitable buffer and after protein determination were tested again for purity. The purified fusion protein was stored in aliquots at 20 C.

A test based on the 96 well format was used for a more detailed analysis of the affinity of the HMGA1a b spiegelmers for HMGA1b. In this test the binding of the HMGA1a b spiegelmers to HMGA1b His6 prevents its interaction with a DNA oligonucleotide that has a binding site for HMGA1a b. This DNA oligonucleotide dsDNA AT hook Fashena et al. 1992 is labelled on one strand with a biotin molecule via which it can be bound to plates coated with streptavidin. The detection of HMGA1b His6 bound to DNA is carried out with horseradish peroxidase modified with nickel Nickel HRP which transforms a fluorogenic substrate. In this assay the spiegelmer displaces the recombinant HMGA1b from its natural binding partner. On account of the 1 1 1 stoichiometry of spiegelmer rHMGA1b dsDNA AT Hook a direct prediction can be made regarding the affinity of the spiegelmers for HMGA1b. The principle of the assay is illustrated in .

To carry out this test spiegelmers in various concentrations and HMGA1b His6 0.36 g ml ca. 30 nM in a total volume of 100 l are incubated for 10 minutes in a tapered floor plate at room temperature while shaking. The incubation solution also contains 25 mM Tris HCl pH 7.0 Ambion Austin Tex. USA 140 mM KCl Ambion Austin Tex. USA 12 mM NaCl Ambion Austin Tex. USA 0.8 mM MgCl2 Ambion Austin Tex. USA 0.25 mg ml BSA Roche Mannheim Germany 1 mM DTT Invitrogen Karlsruhe Germany 18 20 g ml poly dGdC Sigma Deisenhofen Germany 0.05 Tween 20 Roche Mannheim Germany . 2 l of biotinylated DNA oligonucleotides dsDNA AT hook equimolar mixture of 5 biotin TCGAAAAAAGCAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAACTGGC 34 nt and 5 GCCAGTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTGCTTTTTT 31 nt 75 M in 150 mM NaCl Ambion Austin Tex. USA are then added and incubated for a further 10 mins at RT while shaking. The batches are then transferred to a black 96 well plate coated with streptavidin ReactiBind from Pierce Bonn Germany and incubated for 30 mins at RT while gently shaking. Following this the wells of the plate are washed three times each time with 200 l of TBSTCM 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.6 Ambion Austin Tex. USA 137 mM NaCl Ambion Austin Tex. USA 1 mM MgCl2 Ambion Austin Tex. USA 1 mM CaCl2 Sigma Deisenhofen Germany 0.05 Tween 20 Roche Mannheim Germany . 50 l of a dilute nickel HRP solution are added to each well ExpressDetector nickel HRP Medac Hamburg Germany 1 1000 in 10 mg ml BSA Roche Mannheim Germany in TBSTCM and incubated for 1 hour at RT while gently shaking. The wells are then washed again three times with 200 l TBSTCM each time.

100 l of the fluorogenic HRP substrate QuantaBlue Pierce Bonn Germany are then added to each well and the fluorescence is measured after 15 mins ex 340 em 405 nm .

It was shown that the spiegelmers NOX A 50 nt NOX f 33 nt and NOX f 48 nt compete in a concentration dependent manner with the binding of HMGA1b His6 to the biotinylated DNA Oligonucleotide . A IC50 of ca. 15 nM is found for spiegelmer NOX A.

In contrast to the active spiegelmer a control spiegelmer with a inverse sequence to NOX A showed in a concentration of up 0.5 M no effect on the binding of HMGA1b His6 to the DNA oligonucleotide and non specific interactions with HMGA1b His6 occur only at concentrations above 1 M .

The recombinantly expressed HMGA1b was separated by gel electrophoresis on a 16 PAA tricin gel and transferred by means of electroblotting to nitrocellulose membranes. The membrane was then blocked with 5 skimmed milk and 100 nM non specific spiegelmer in 1 TBST 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.6 137 mM NaCl 0.1 Tween for 1 hour and washed three times for 10 minutes with 1 TBST. The detection of the recombinant HMGA1b was carried out with spiegelmer NOX A biotinylated at the 5 end 5 bioNOX A . 5 bioNOX A was diluted in 1 TBST with 1 mM each of calcium and magnesium TBST Ca Mg and 100 nM non specific spiegelmer and incubated for 1.5 hours. The blot was then washed three times for 10 minutes with 1 TBST Ca Mg and the bound biotinylated spiegelmer was incubated with an anti biotin antibody in TBST Ca Mg for 45 minutes. The blot was then washed five times for 10 minutes with 1 TBST Ca Mg and the secondary antibody coupled with horseradish peroxidase HRP was detected by means of LumiGLO detection reagent Cell Signaling Technology .

The binding of a 5 terminal biotinylated spiegelmer to the recombinantly expressed HMGA1b was demonstrated by means of the aforedescribed process. Similarly to a detection based on antibodies 5 g of HMGA1b were detected with 3 nM bio NOX A after transfer to a blot membrane. The inverse spiegelmer of NOX A could not recognise HMGA1b which confirms the specific binding of NOX A .

The target molecule HMGA1a b is expressed in the cytosol and finds as transcription factor its natural binding partner the double strand DNA in the cell nucleus. The HMGA1a b mediated cellular responses should be antagonised by binding of the spiegelmer to HMGA1a b in the cytosol and competition of the HMGA1a b bound by the AT hooks to the DNA in cell nucleus. On account of the negative charge of the plasma membrane DNA and RNA molecule are not readily taken up by passive transport from a cell. One of the approaches to the intracellular transport by nucleic acids is the condensation or packing with charged particles or reagents resulting in a charge of the overall complex. This complex is easily taken up through endocytosis and thus passes into the cytosol of the cell. Disadvantages of this method are the stability of the DNA RNA and the release of the nucleic acid from the endosomal compartment. In the cytosol of the cell a lysosome is quickly formed from the constricted endosome by the introduction of proteases or nucleases and by protonation of the compartment. Nucleases digest the nucleic acids there and in addition the nucleic acid is not stable in the acidic medium. The whole complex is rapidly transported again out of the cell by exocytosis and decomposition in the Golgi apparatus and therefore only a few nucleic acids pass into the cell. One of the preconditions for a suitable transfection system is thus the stabilisation as well as the release of the nucleic acid from the endosome into the cytosol. As regards stability RNA spiegelmers have ideal properties for a transfection of eukaryotic cells since being unnatural enantiomers they are not cleaved by enzymes.

The selected transfection system is based on the formation of micelles of nucleic acids with branched polyethyleneimine PEI . The phosphate backbone of the nucleic acids interacts with the free nitrogen positions of the PEI and forms small micelles by cross branching which have a positive charge on account of the PEI. In this connection PEI with a molecular weight of 3 to 800 kDa is used. The smaller the PEI the smaller are the formed micelles. The use of 25 kDa cross branched PEI Sigma Aldrich Cat. No. 40 872 7 leads on addition of nucleic acids to the formation of polyplexes of size 100 nm up to 500 nm though typically to polyplexes of size 100 to 200 nm. As a rule a nitrogen phosphate ratio of 2 1 to 5 1 is used in some cases even up to 20 1. The packing of the nucleic acid in micelles results in a change of the zeta potential of the complex to 21 mV with a N P ratio of 3. It is known that with increasing positive zeta potential of complexes the toxicity to culture cells rises. These micelles are however easily taken up as endosomes by a cell by constriction of the plasma membrane. The PEI now buffers inflowing protons as a result of which many chloride ions in the interior of the endosome lead to a swelling of the compartment on account of the osmotic pressure. This effect of PEI is described in the literature as the proton sponge effect Sonawane et al. JBC 2003 Vol. 278 No. 45 7 pp. 44826 44831 and ultimately leads to the rupture of the endosome and to the release of the spiegelmers into the cytosol.

The nucleic acid PEI complex has a tendency on account of a strongly positive charge to interaction and aggregation with serum proteins and also to exhibit the aforedescribed cell toxicity. Thus it has been described in the literature that high doses of nucleic acid PEI micelles after subcutaneous and intravenous injection in rats can rapidly lead to an accumulation in the lungs and thus to embolisms infarcts. The solution to this problem is to derivatise the nucleic acid with 2 kDa polyethylene glycol PEG . These residues surround the micelles like a shield and prevent the binding to serum proteins Ogris et al. Gene Therapy 1999 6 595 605 . Furthermore the zeta potential is reduced to 0 mV which leads to a lower cell toxicity while retaining the buffer capacity of the PEI as regards the proton sponge effect.

The lead candidates NOX A and NOX f were produced synthetically as aptamer and spiegelmer with a 3 terminal amino group and were then PEGylated via the amino radical. It was shown by means of equilibrium binding assays that PEGylation has no influence on the binding properties of the aptamers to the HMGA1a b fragment. Furthermore it was shown by means of competition assays with recombinant full length HMGA1a b that also the binding of spiegelmers to the full length HMGA1a b is independent of the 3 terminal PEGylation .

The packing of sterile PEGylated spiegelmer was carried out in PBS by adding 25 kDa of cross branched polyethyleneimine PEI ALDRICH Cat. 40 872 7 in a ratio of the absolute nitrogen fraction of the PEI to the absolute phosphate of the ribonucleic acid backbone of 2.5 1 N P 2.5 . The sterile autoclaved PEI solution had a concentration of 200 mM free nitrogen groups and was adjusted to a pH of 7.4 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. The sterile filtered spiegelmer was taken in a concentration of up to 700 M in 1 PBS with Ca Mg and after addition of sterile filtered PEI was incubated for 30 60 minutes at room temperature. Ideally the complex formation takes place with the smallest possible adjusted concentration of added spiegelmer since high concentrations of spiegelmer lead to randomly large aggregates. The formation of spiegelmer micelles was measured by means of a dye exclusion assay. For this it was determined how much spiegelmer can be detected by the dye before and after packing in micelles. RiboGreen M. Probes was used as dye and the fluorescence was measured with an ELISA reader. 1 M spiegelmer was added in each case to 100 l 1 PBS and increasing amounts of PEI were added. 100 l of 0.2 g l RiboGreen were placed in a 96 well microtitre plate suitable for fluorescence and after incubating the micelle batch for 30 minutes at room temperature 10 l were pipetted into the microtitre plate. Starting from a N P ratio of 2 more than 90 of the spiegelmers were present as micelles . In this connection PEI alone had no influence on the fluorescence of the dye.

1 M of spiegelmer micelles were stored under conditions specified in . The stability of spiegelmer micelles was measured by the dye exclusion assay described in Section 3.3 A stability study of the micelles showed that the storage of micelles in different media as well as at different temperatures has no influence on the spiegelmer micelles. The freeze drying of ribozyme PEI complexes without any loss of the properties of the ribozyme is also described in the literature Brus C et al. J. Control Release 2004 Feb. 20 95 1 199 31 .

The intracellular uptake of spiegelmer micelles was established in a cell culture system of HS578T cells. 1 10HS578T cells were allowed to grow on sterile 20 mm size cover classes to a confluence of 30 40 . 5 labelled spiegelmer NOX A 3 PEG was packed with a N P ratio 2.5 1 in micelles added in a concentration of 1 M to the cells and incubated for 16 hours at 37 C. As control for the passive uptake of spiegelmers 1 M of pure fluorescence labelled spiegelmer was in each case incubated with the cells. The cells were then washed three times with 1 ml of PBS and fixed for 30 minutes with 3 paraformaldehyde. The preparations were again washed three times with 1 ml of PBS incubated for a further 10 20 seconds with a DAPI solution 1 l stock to 10 ml 1 PBS to stain the chomatin in the cell nucleus washed once more and covered with a mounting solution. The preparations prepared in this way were analysed in a fluorescence microscope emission 488 nm extinction 514 522 nm .

It was shown that spiegelmer micelles have a higher transfection rate compared to naked unpacked spiegelmers 

The transfection efficiency was in this connection 95 of all cells and had no influence on the morphology of the cells. The 5 FITC coupled spiegelmer was mainly to be found in the cytosol and associated with the plasma membrane. The point like distribution indicates an inclusion in compartments and the diffuse pattern points to released spiegelmer. Only a slight spiegelmer signal could be detected in the cell nucleus.

The point like distribution of the spiegelmer in the cytosol and perinuclear space of the H578T cells points to an accumulation in compartments of the cells for example endosomes. To check the release of the spiegelmers from these compartments the distribution pattern of individual greatly enlarged cells was analysed . In addition to the point like localisation of the spiegelmers a diffuse distribution pattern in the cytosol and on the plasma membrane was detected which points to the endosomal release of the spiegelmers. This pattern was not found in the case of naked spiegelmers.

The potential role of HMGA1a b in cell division was investigated by means of proliferation assays. First of all spiegelmer was added in a high dose as naked nucleic acid to the cell culture medium and the growth of the cells was followed over time The breast cancer cell line MCF 7 was used as model since in these cells a smaller antagonising expression of HMGA1a b was found and the role of HMGA1a b in the proliferation of these cells had already been described in the literature. Reeves et al. Reeves R et al. Molecular and Cellular Biology January 2001 p575 594 showed that the over expression of HMGA1a b in MCF 7 cells leads to an increased proliferation and the inhibition of HMGA1a b by means of expressed antisense constructs inhibits the proliferation of MCF 7 cells.

0.5 10MCF 7 cells ATCC were seeded out in 96 well plates Costar with a flat transparent base and cultured for 16 24 hours in 100 l RPMI 1640 medium with 10 foetal calf serum FCS . The cells were then washed with PBS and cultured for a further 48 hours with standard cell culture medium with the direct addition of sterile filtered spiegelmer. This was followed by the addition of 10 l of a resazurin solution 0.44 mM in PBS to the respective batches and further incubation for 2 hours at 37 C. The transformation of resazurin by the cell metabolism correlates directly with the number of cells. The change in colour was measured in a Fluostar Optima multidetection plate reading device BMG emission 544 nm extinction 590 nm . Each value was determined three times per experiment and referred to the values of untreated control cells.

NOX A inhibited after two days in a dose dependent manner the proliferation of MCF 7 cells n 12 . The maximum inhibition of the proliferation to ca. 30 of the value of untreated cells was found at 40 M. At concentrations up to 40 M no non specific effect of the inverse control spiegelmer was found.

1 10NCI H 1299 cells lung carcinoma cells ATCC were seeded out in 24 well plates Costar with a flat transparent base and cultured for 16 24 hours in 1 ml RPMI 1640 medium with a 10 FCS. The cells were then washed twice with PBS and cultured for a further three days with cell culture medium containing 1 FCS and spiegelmer micelles. The packing of sterile PEGylated spiegelmer was carried out beforehand in PBS by adding 25 kDa cross branched polyethyleneimine PEI Sigma in a ratio of the absolute nitrogen fraction of the PEI to the absolute phosphate of the ribonucleic acid backbone of 2.5 1 N P 2.5 . The sterile spiegelmer was used in a concentration of 30 M and after the addition of the PEI was incubated for 30 60 minutes at room temperature. The spiegelmer micelles were then diluted to 1 M with cell culture medium containing 1 FCS added directly to the washed cells and incubated for three days at 37 C.

This was followed by addition of 100 l resazurin solution to the respective batches and further incubation for 2 hours at 37 C. The transformation of resazurin by the cell metabolism correlates directly with the number of cells. 100 l were removed from the batches transferred to a 96 well plate and the colour change was measured in a Fluostar Optima multidetection plate reading device BMG emission 544 nm extinction 590 nm . Each value was determined twice per experiment and referred to the values of untreated control cells.

The use of PEI N P 2.5 with 1 M spiegelmer did not initially have any effect on cell proliferation. By reducing the amount of FKS in the cell culture medium to below 1 it was shown that the transfection with spiegelmer micelles has an influence on the proliferation of H 1299 cells which was not previously visible with 10 FKS . Possibly FKS stimulates the proliferation to such an extent that the slight effect could not be observed. The reduction of the FKS concentration in MCF 7 cells lead to the death of the cells over a period of 3 days.

Effect on the HMGA1a b mediated regulation of cell cycle factors in the example of the potential oncogene cdc25a.

Reeves et al. Molecular and Cellular Biology January 2001 p575 594 showed by means of cDNA arrays through over expression of HMGA1a b in MCF 7 cells that HMGA1a b induces the expression of a large number of genes. At the same time cell cycle factors and growth factors such as for example cdc25a identified as a potential oncogene cell division cycle 25a phosphotase which plays a decisive role in the control of the transition from the G1 phase to the S phase of the cell cycle are over expressed by a factor of up to 100. The activation of such control points leads after inhibition of the cell cycle progression either to the transcription of genes which are involved in DNA repair or if the DNA damage is irreparable to the induction of apoptosis. As cell culture test system H 1299 cells were chosen for this purpose since they have already exhibited an increased expression of HMGA1a b.

1 10H 1299 cells were seeded out in 24 well plates Costar with a flat transparent floor and cultured for 16 24 hours in RPMI 1640 medium containing 10 FCS volume 1 ml . The cells were then washed twice with PBS and cultured for a further three days in cell culture medium with spiegelmer micelles containing 10 FCS. The packing of sterile PEGylated spiegelmer was carried out beforehand in PBS by adding 25 kDa cross branched polyethyleneimine PEI Sigma in a ratio of the absolute nitrogen fraction of the PEI to the absolute phosphate of the ribonucleic acid backbone of 2.5 1 N P 2.5 . The sterile spiegelmer was used in a concentration of 30 M and after adding PEI was incubated for 30 60 minutes at room temperature. The spiegelmer micelles with cell culture medium containing 1 FCS were then diluted to the respective concentration added directly to the washed cells and incubated for three days at 37 C. The cells were washed twice with PBS and harvested by means of a cell scraper. The mRNA of the cells was then isolated from the cells by means of Roti Quick Kits Roth Cat. No. 979.1 and 0.2 1 g of total RNA was used as template for the PCR of cdc25a and GAPDH.

The primers for the amplification of GAPDH were as follows forward primer 5 ACATGTTCCAATATGATTCC 3 and reverse primer 5 TGGACTCCACGACGTACTCAG 3 at an annealing temperature of 51 C. and for the amplification of cdc25a forward primer 5 GAGGAGTCTCACCTGGAAGTACA 3 and reverse primer 5 GCCATTCAAAACCAGATGCCATAA 3 at an annealing temperature of 59 C. The PCR conditions were as follows 0.2 0.75 M primer 1.5 mM MgCl2 and 0.2 mM dNTPs. Every two PCR cycles an aliquot of 5 l was quantified by PicoGreen and evaluated by correlation with GAPDH as load control for this in the first step for each investigated sample the so called crossing point value CP of the reference gene is subtracted from the CP value of the gene being investigated dCP CP target gene minus CP reference gene . CP is defined as the number of PCR cycles that are required in order to reach a constantly defined fluorescence value. The same amount of newly synthesised DNA is found at the CP in all reaction vessels. After this standardisation the dCP value of a control in this case GAPDH is subtracted from the dCP value of the experimently treated samples one arrives at the so called delta delta CT calculation model. The relative expression difference of a sample between the treatment and the control ratio normalised to the reference gene and referred to a standard sample is found from the arithmetic formula 2. dCP CP cdc25 CP GAPDH ddCP dCP treatment spiegelmer NOX A dCP control PBS or NOX A inverse Ratio 2 Result

cdc25a and HMGA1a b were detected in MCF 7 and H 1299 cells by means of RT PCR. MCF 7 cells showed with a low expression of HMGA1a b also a low expression of cdc25a whereas HMGA1a b and cdc25a were strongly expressed in H 1299 cells. The transfection of H 1299 cells for two days with HMGA1a b binding spiegelmers led to a significant dose dependent reduction of the expression of cdc25a mRNA and .

Up to a concentration of 4 M a control spiegelmer exhibited no non specific effect neither on the GAPDH nor on the cdc25a mRNA expression. From this it can be concluded that the HMGA1a b induced over expression of the potential oncogene cdc25a can be inhibited by means of spiegelmers.

In order to test the hypothesis that HMGA1a b binding spiegelmers inhibit the growth of tumours in vivo a xenograft model was developed for the strongly HMGA1a b expressing pancreatic carcinoma cells PSN 1. On the basis of this model a therapeutic experiment was carried out with 2 mg kg NOX A spiegelmer micelles at a N P of 2.5 see Example 3 paragraph 3.3 .

Male naked mice NMRI nu nu group size n 8 were subcutaneously injected in the side with in each case 10PSN 1 cells ECACC and the tumour growth was observed over 22 days. The animals had a mean weight of 25 27 g and were 6 8 weeks old. The active spiegelmer NOX A 3 PEG and the inverse control spiegelmer in INV 3 PEG were packed in micelles as described above by adding PEI in a N P ratio of 2.5. 100 l of the spiegelmer micelle suspension corresponding to 3.46 nmole animal or 2 mg kg were in each case subcutaneously injected daily into the vicinity of the tumour. The tumour volume and bodyweight were measured three times a week. The animals were sacrificed on day 22 and the distribution of NOX A in the plasma liver kidneys and tumour was quantified.

For this purpose the tissues were homogenised in hybridisation buffer 0.5 SSC pH 7.0 0.5 w v SDSarcosinate and centrifuged for 10 mins at 4000 g. The supernatants obtained were stored at 20 C. until further use.

The amount of spiegelmer in the plasma samples and in the tissue homogenates was investigated by means of a hybridisation assay Drolet et al. 2000 Pharm. Res. 17 1503 . The hybridisation assay is based on the following principle the spiegelmer to be detected L RNA molecule is hybridised on an immobilised L DNA oligonucleotide probe capture probe NOX A in this case 5 CCCATATCCACCCACGTATCAGCCTTTTTTTT NH2 3 complementary to the 5 end of HMGA1a b NOX A and detected with a biotinylated detection L DNA probe detector probe NOX A in this case 5 biotin TTTTTTTTGGCTGAAACCACCCACATGG 3 complementary to the 3 end of HMGA1a b NOX A . For this purpose a streptavidin alkaline phosphatase conjugate is in a further step bound to the complex. After adding a chemiluminescence substrate light is generated and measured in a luminometer.

Immobilisation of the oligonucleotide probe 100 l of the capture probe 0.75 pmole ml in coupling buffer 500 mM NaHPO pH 8.5 0.5 mM EDTA were transferred to each well depression in a plate in DNA BIND plates Corning Costar and incubated overnight at 4 C. The probe was then washed three times with 200 l of coupling buffer each time and incubated for 1 hour at 37 C. with in each case 200 l of blocking buffer 0.5 w v BSA in coupling buffer . After washing again with 200 l of coupling buffer and 3 200 l hybridisation buffer the plates can be used for the detection.

Hybridisation and detection 10 l EDTA plasma or tissue homogenate were mixed with 90 l of detection buffer 2 pmole l of detector probe in hybridisation buffer and centrifuged. Further purifications were carried out as necessary. The batches were then denatured for 10 mins at 95 C. transferred to the suitably prepared DNA BIND wells see above and incubated for 45 mins at ca. 40 C. The following wash steps were then carried out 2 200 l hybridisation buffer and 3 200 l 1 TBS Tween 20 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.6 137 mM NaCl 0.1 v v Tween 20 . 1 l streptavidin alkaline phosphatase conjugate Promega was diluted with 5 ml of TBS Tween 20. 100 l of the diluted conjugate were added to each well and incubated for 1 hour at room temperature. The following wash steps were then carried out 2 200 l TBS Tween 20 and 2 200 l of assay buffer 20 mM Tris Cl pH 9.8 1 mM MgCl . 100 l of CSPD Ready To Use Substrate Applied Biosystems were then added incubated for 30 mins at room temperature and the chemiluminescence was measured in a Fluostar Optima multidetecton plate reading device BMG .

In a preliminary experiment it was shown that H 1299 cells after transplanting as a tumour grew significantly more slowly than PSN 1 and on comparing the individual animals exhibited an inhomogeneous tumour growth and therefore appeared unsuitable as xenograft model for a treatment study. PSN 1 cells exhibited an aggressive tumour growth within 22 days. It was shown that NOX A nicelles at a dose of 2 mg kg reduced the growth of PSN 1 tumours significantly compared to the PBS control . The weight of the animals was unaffected by the treatment with spiegelmer micelles. The control spiegelmer did not exhibit any non specific inhibition of the tumour growth and likewise had no effect on the weight of the animals. The differences in tumour sizes were from day 10 of the treatment with NOX A3 PEG micelles significant or highly significant compared to untreated animals PBS control student s t test . The end point analysis after 22 days showed a highly significant specific reduction in tumour growth p 0.0098 compared to PBS and p 0.022 compared to inverse control spiegelmer . Mice treated with PBS showed an average tumour growth of 2.5 cm animals treated with controlled spiegelmer had an average tumour volume of 2.6 cmand animals treated with NOX A had an average tumour volume of 1.2 cmafter 22 days box and whisker analysis . This corresponds to a reduction of the tumour growth of more than 50 .

In order to check the efficient incorporation of spiegelmer micelles a non functional spiegelmer Proof Of Concept POC was PEGylated at the 3 end with PEG 2 kDa and packed with a nitrogen phosphate ratio N P of 2.5 in micelles see Example 3 paragraph 3.3 . In a similar way to the protocol described in Example 5 this approach was adopted for spiegelmer packed in micelles as well as for free unpacked spiegelmer.

Male naked mice NMRI nu nu group size n 8 were in each case injected subcutaneously in the side with 10PSN 1 cells ECACC and the tumour growth was observed over 25 days. The animals had a mean weight of 25 27 g and were 6 8 weeks old. The non functional spiegelmer POC 3 PEG was packed in micelles by adding PEI in a N P ratio of 2.5 as described above. Spiegelmer POC 3 PEG not packed in micelles served as control for the incorporation not mediated by PEI. 100 l of the spiegelmer micelle suspension or spiegelmer solution corresponding to 1500 nmole kg and 2000 nmole kg were injected daily subcutaneously into the vicinity of the tumour. The tumour volume and body weight were measured three times a week. 24 and 96 hours after the last injection two animals from each group were sacrificed and the distribution of POC 3 PEG packed unpacked in the plasma brain heart lungs liver kidneys gallbladder pancreas and tumour was quantified.

For this purpose the tissue was homogenised in hybridisation buffer 0.5 SSC pH 7.0 0.5 w v SDSarcosinate and centrifuged for 10 mins at 4000 g. The resultant supernatants were stored at 20 C. until further use.

The amount of spiegelmer in the plasma samples and in the tissues homogenates was investigated by means of a hybridisation assay Drolet et al. 2000 Pharm. Res. 17 1503 . The assay is based on the following principle the spiegelmer L RNA molecule to be detected is hybridised on an immobilised L DNA oligonucleotide probe capture probe POC here 5 NH2 C7 TTTTTTTTTAGCTCTGCACAGCGCT 3 complementary to the 3 end of POC and is detected with a biotinylated detection L DNA probe detector probe POC here 5 CCGCATCAGACCGAGTTTCCTTATTTTTTTT Biotin 3 complementary to the 5 end of POC . For this a streptavidin alkaline phosphatase conjugate was bound in a further step to the complex. After addition of a chemiluminescence substrate light is generated and measured in a luminometer.

Immobilisation of the oligonucleotide probe 100 l of the POC capture probe 0.75 pmole ml in coupling buffer 500 mM NaHPOpH 8.5 0.5 mM EDTA were transferred to each well depression in a plate in DNA BIND plates Corning Costar and incubated overnight at 4 C. The probe was then washed three times with 200 l of coupling buffer and incubated for 1 hour at 37 C. with 200 l of blocking buffer 0.5 w v BSA in coupling buffer . After washing again with 200 l of coupling buffer and 3 200 l of hybridisation buffer the plates can be used for the detection.

Hybridisation and detection 10 l of EDTA plasma or tissue homogenate were mixed with 90 l of detection buffer 2 pmole l POC detector probe in hybridisation buffer and centrifuged. Further purifications were carried out as necessary. The batches were then denatured for 10 mins at 95 C. transferred to the suitably prepared DNA BIND wells see above and incubated for 45 mins at ca. 40 C. The following wash steps were then carried out 2 200 l of hybridisation buffer and 3 200 l 1 TBS Tween 20 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.6 137 mM NaCl 0.1 v v Tween 20 . 1 l of streptavidin alkaline phosphatase conjugate Promega was diluted with 5 ml of 1 TBS Tween 20. 100 l of the dilute conjugate were added to each well and incubated for one hour at room temperature. The following wash steps were then carried out 2 200 l of 1 TBS Tween 20 and 2 200 l of 1 assay buffer 20 mM Tris Cl pH 9.8 1 mM MgCl . 100 l of CSPD Ready To Use Substrate Applied Biosystems were then added incubated for 30 mins at room temperature and the chemiluminescence was measured in a Fluostar Optima multidetection plate reading device BMG .

The analysis of the weight distribution of the non functional spiegelmer POC 3 PEG which was packed in micelles showed after 24 hours a significantly higher concentration in the tumour tissues 24.925 13.301 pmole mg compared to the unpacked spiegelmer 0.840 0.255 pmole mg . Whereas the concentration of the packed spiegelmer had halved 11.325 7.050 pmole mg after a further three days 96 hours only a very small amount of the unpacked spiegelmer could be detected 0.120 0.057 pmole mg .

The plasma level of unpacked spiegelmer 2.950 0.438 pmole ml after 24 hours was comparable to that of the PEI packed spiegelmer 1.930 2.729 pmole ml . After 96 hours clear differences were found in which about four times the amount of packed spiegelmer compared to the unpacked spiegelmer was detected.

A slight accumulation in the kidneys was observed after 24 hours for both formulations whereas a slight accumulation in the liver and gallbladder was found only for unpacked spiegelmer. After 96 hours for both formulations only minor amounts of spiegelmer were detected in the liver and kidneys. On the other hand slightly raised values were found in the gallbladder and pancreas but with a high standard deviation for packed spiegelmer compared to unpacked spiegelmer.

To summarise compared to the weight distribution 24 and 96 hours after the last injection of spiegelmers in the presence and absence of PEI it was found that spiegelmer micelles have a significantly prolonged residence time in the plasma and tumour compared to unpacked material and thus represent a promising approach to the use of spiegelmers directed against intracellular target molecules.

The features of the invention disclosed in the preceding description claims and drawings can be essential both individually as well as in any combination for the implementation of the invention in its various embodiments.

