---

title: Methods and apparatus for determining aspects of multimedia performance of a wireless device
abstract: Apparatus and methods may include a multimedia test engine operable to exercise and test multimedia application programming interfaces (APIs) of a wireless device based upon execution of a test configuration comprising a test script downloadable to the wireless device. The test engine is resident in memory on the wireless device and is operable to collect multimedia test data and, in some aspects, wireless device performance data, based upon the test configuration and forward the collected data to another device operable to analyze the collected data and generate a multimedia API test report viewable by an authorized user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08719419&OS=08719419&RS=08719419
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08719419
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060417
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 674 108 entitled Methods And Apparatus For Providing Multimedia Test Engines For A Wireless Device filed Apr. 21 2005 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The described embodiments generally relate to wireless communication devices and software testing. More particularly the described embodiments relate to a framework for testing multimedia application programming interfaces APIs on a wireless device.

Wireless networking connects one or more wireless devices to other computer devices without a direct electrical connection such as a copper wire or optical cable. Wireless devices communicate data typically in the form of packets across a wireless or partially wireless computer network and open a data or communication channel on the network such that the device can send and receive data packets. The wireless devices often have wireless device resources such as programs and hardware components which individually and cooperatively operate to use and generate data in accordance to their design and specific protocol or configuration such as using open communication connections to transmit and receive data on the network.

Wireless devices are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers. These smart wireless devices such as cellular telephones have APIs installed onto their local computer platform that allow software developers to create software applications that operate on the cellular telephone. The API sits between the wireless device system software and the software application making the cellular telephone functionality available to the application without requiring the software developer to have the specific cellular telephone system source code.

Multimedia features that receive display and transmit video audio and clips are some of the latest innovations now being offered on wireless devices and require longer and more complex testing prior to release. Because a new multimedia application may require a new API a carrier and or original equipment manufacturer OEM must test not only the new application program but must also test all new multimedia APIs. Furthermore testing of the main application may not be possible without prior testing of any underlying APIs.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide apparatus and methods providing a test framework wherein multimedia APIs are tested and exercised independent of the multimedia applications relying upon them.

The described embodiments comprise apparatus methods computer readable media and processors operable to provide a systematic and automatic way to exercise and test multimedia application programming interfaces APIs . Such embodiments may reduce regression testing of a wireless device chipset provider OEM. Furthermore application test time may be reduced by testing the underlying APIs independent of the application.

In some aspects a method of testing multimedia application programming interfaces APIs on a wireless device on a wireless network comprises obtaining on the wireless device a multimedia test configuration including at least one test script. The method further includes executing the at least one test script on the wireless device the at least one test script operable to exercise a predetermined multimedia application program interface API embodied on the wireless device. Further the method includes recording on the wireless device multimedia test data relating to performance of the multimedia API based on execution of the test script. Additionally the method includes forwarding the recorded multimedia test data for analysis of the performance of the multimedia API. In related aspects a machine readable medium comprises instructions which when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform the above stated operations. In other related aspects at least one processor is configured to perform the above stated actions.

In other aspects a wireless device comprises means for obtaining on the wireless device a multimedia test configuration including at least one test script. The wireless device also includes means for executing the at least one test script on the wireless device where the at least one test script operable to exercise a predetermined multimedia application program interface API embodied on the wireless device. Further the wireless device includes means for recording on the wireless device multimedia test data relating to performance of the multimedia API based on execution of the test script. Additionally the wireless device includes means for forwarding the recorded multimedia test data for analysis of the performance of the multimedia API.

In still other aspects a wireless device comprises a processing engine and an application programming interface API operable to provide an interface to the processing engine. The wireless device further includes a memory comprising a multimedia test engine executable by the processing engine. The multimedia test engine comprises a test configuration having a test script operable to call and test the performance of the API. Further the multimedia test engine comprises monitoring logic and reporting logic. The monitoring logic is operable to monitor and record multimedia test data associated with the operation of the API and the execution of the test script. The reporting logic is operable to forward the recorded multimedia test data to a predetermined device across a wireless network.

In further aspects a method of determining a performance of a multimedia application programming interface API on a wireless device on a wireless network comprises generating a test configuration comprising a test script operable to test the performance of a predetermined multimedia API. The method further includes forwarding the test configuration across the wireless network to the wireless device. Also the method includes receiving multimedia test data and wireless device performance data from the wireless device across the wireless network based on execution of the test configuration and analyzing the received multimedia data and wireless device performance data. Additionally the method includes generating a test report based on the analysis. In related aspects a machine readable medium comprises instructions which when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform the above stated operations. In other related aspects at least one processor is configured to perform the above stated actions.

In still other aspects an apparatus comprises means for generating a test configuration comprising a test script operable to test the performance of a predetermined multimedia API. The apparatus also includes means for forwarding the test configuration across the wireless network to the wireless device. Further the apparatus includes means for receiving multimedia test data and wireless device performance data from the wireless device across the wireless network based on execution of the test configuration. Also the apparatus includes means for analyzing the received multimedia data and wireless device performance data. Additionally the apparatus includes means for generating a test report based on the analysis.

In further aspects an apparatus comprises an information repository operable to receive and store multimedia test data and wireless device performance data collected by a wireless device based on execution of a test configuration on the wireless device operable to test a multimedia application programming interface API resident on the wireless device. The apparatus also includes an analysis engine operable to analyze the received multimedia test data and wireless device performance data based upon predetermined thresholds. Additionally the apparatus includes a report generator operable to generate a test report based on the analysis of the received multimedia test data and wireless device performance data.

Apparatus and methods are herein described for testing APIs on a wireless device. In some non limiting cases for example the test results may be used to optimize multimedia applications by reporting on data throughput versus quality dropped multimedia frames based on CPU usage comparing multimedia APIs performance across different carriers manufacturers firmware and models and comparing collected multimedia data quality across different wireless devices.

Methods embodied in wireless device may comprise receiving one or more test scripts and or test data embodied in a test configuration . Operated upon by a memory resident multimedia test engine the test scripts simulate the operation of a multimedia application initiating calls to multimedia APIs in order to access multimedia subsystems residing on wireless device . All incoming and outgoing video and audio data as well as device performance data e.g. radio frequency RF environment data and data throughput may be monitored and recorded on the wireless device . Further the disclosed methods may establish a multimedia connection between the wireless device and a predetermined destination e.g. multimedia analysis server . The recorded data generated based on the configuration may be forwarded to a multimedia analysis module hosted on the multimedia analysis server where the data may be stored in an information repository .

The multimedia analysis module controlled by analysis control logic may further include an analysis engine and a report generator . The analysis performed by the analysis engine may include determining the performance of one or more APIs including comparing the received multimedia files with transmitted data analyzing throughput and quality and comparing wireless performance data with stored threshold values. Viewable on the server by an authorized user e.g. test engineer the analysis may comprise graphs charts etc. Furthermore the report generator is operable to generate a test report which may comprise one or any combination of the API performance analysis the test data and the test configuration. Test report may be sent electronically e.g. via e mail to a destination address for example to a test engineer operating test workstation or any other predetermined party interested in API performance. It should be note however that the analysis engine and report generator may reside on the wireless device depending on the memory and processing capability of the device.

Furthermore the workstation may provide the test engineer access to the functionality of multimedia analysis server via a wired connection or through wireless network . In some aspects of system test workstation may communicate directly with wireless device . In other aspects test workstation may be a slave to remote server wherein the remote server manages connectivity to the wireless devices and is operable to validate the identity of devices requesting information from or connection to wireless device e.g. test workstation . For example based on test report a new test configuration may be generated and or activities may be performed to adjust the characteristic of one or more APIs to change their performance with respect to a given test.

Activities performed herein may be performed on any form of wireless device or computer module including a wired or wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

Referring to wireless device may include computer platform operable to receive and execute software applications and test scripts e.g. multimedia test engine and test configuration and transmit both recorded video frames and wireless device performance data across wireless network to remote devices.

Wireless device may include any type of computerized wireless device such as cellular telephone personal digital assistant two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools and data relays.

Wireless device may also include input mechanism and output mechanism interconnected to computer platform . Input mechanism is operable to generate an input into wireless device and may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display and a voice recognition module. Output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker and a haptic feedback mechanism for example for relaying information to the user of the wireless device .

Computer platform may include a memory which may further comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk including removable memory devices and external memory devices. Additionally memory may be operable to store test data comprising multimedia test data e.g. received image audio and video data processed image audio and video data as well as wireless device performance data e.g. RF environmental data throughput and other connection related data. Furthermore each wireless device may have device characteristics stored in memory that may include device identification ID a manufacturer s identification device hardware and software configurations and other information pertaining to the specific wireless device . Portions of the device specific information and the given test configuration may be included in test data and may be forwarded to remote server along with test data .

Further computer platform may include a processing assembly which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device operable to execute application programs resident in memory . Processing assembly includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware software firmware executable instructions data and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of wireless device and the operability of the wireless device on wireless network .

More specifically processing subsystems may allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices and applications executing on computer platform including any subsystem component that receives data reads and data writes from API layer on behalf of multimedia applications. In one aspect such as in a cellular telephone processing subsystems may include display system monitor sound system monitor diagnostic system monitor non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor video camcorder vocoder messaging call manager a BLUETOOTH system BLUETOOTH LPOS position determination position engine user interface UI sleep limited services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB and multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc.

API layer comprises software components that interface application programs with processing assembly and the subsystems comprised therein. In one aspect API layer is a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Windows BREW software developed by QUALCOMM Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

In some aspects API layer may comprise a collection of fully tested software components e.g. APIs that enable application software to communicate with processing assembly . Furthermore in the test environment disclosed herein API layer may comprise untested APIs including untested multimedia APIs for applications utilizing multimedia subsystems.

In some aspects memory resident multimedia test engine is operable to test multimedia APIs and the corresponding multimedia portions of the underlying processing subsystem . The multimedia test engine may include monitoring and report logic operable to collect multimedia test data relating to the performance of a given multimedia API based on the execution of the test configuration . Test data may include but is not limited to any information in any processing subsystem relating to the execution of a given test script . For example in a non limiting case multimedia test engine receive and collect video and still image data through the display system monitor and its BREW extension. Similarly in some aspects sound data may be collected through the wireless device OEM layer or through sound system monitor and its BREW extension. Furthermore in some aspects wireless device performance data including RF environment data may be collected through at least one of the wireless device OEM layer the diagnostic system monitor and its BREW extension code division multiple access CDMA events and Over The Air OTA messages. It should be noted that although the above examples reference BREW extension and the CDMA protocol that the described embodiments apply to any type of API layer and any type of communications and or multimedia protocol. Multimedia files e.g. image video and audio files transferred to and from wireless device may be stored in a multimedia test data portion of test data .

Monitoring and reporting logic is further operable to detect a control command see transmitted from a remote device e.g. multimedia analysis server and test workstation . Upon receipt of a control command the monitoring and reporting logic is operable to parse the command to determine an appropriate action. For example a bootstrap command may be received instructing wireless device to download a test configuration . Another command may request a transfer of test data to multimedia analysis server . In some embodiments test data may be uploaded upon completion of a test script . In other embodiments monitoring and reporting logic may upload portions of test data e.g. performance data as the data become available at any point during the execution of a test script .

The multimedia test engine may be loaded into memory by various mechanisms including but not limited to being downloaded from any computer device physically attached to or in electrical communication with wireless device e.g. multimedia analysis server .

Furthermore multimedia test engine is operable to receive a test configuration that may include a set of test scripts and a set of test parameters . In one aspect test scripts may be written for example by test engineer in any software language executable by processing assembly including but not limited to PHP Hypertext Preprocessor PHP Practical Extraction and Report Language PERL Extensible Mark up Language XML a custom language and any combination thereof. Test scripts under control of monitoring and reporting logic are operable to test and exercise the functionality of multimedia APIs and may be single threaded or may initiate multiple threads.

Test configuration may include configurable test parameters used by monitoring and reporting logic to monitor the tests being performed store transmitted and received multimedia data and forward the results to a determined address. For example test parameters may instruct monitoring and reporting logic to accumulate performance test data including but not limited to RF environment data including Searcher and Finger Info for CDMA systems WCDMA Finger Info for TA for Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS systems hand offs signal strength and in out service events etc. In addition data specific to the wireless device may be recorded e.g. firmware software hardware model manufacturer and wireless identification ID . Furthermore while in some embodiments test parameters may comprise a separate component within test configuration in other embodiments the test parameters may be incorporated within the test scripts .

Furthermore test parameters may include configurable reporting parameters that control the destination and the timing of transferring the test results to the multimedia analysis server . For example the test results may be transmitted as the result becomes available or upon completion of each or all of test scripts . Furthermore in other embodiments monitoring and reporting logic may upload test results to the multimedia analysis server as a response to a command issued by the multimedia analysis server . Upon receipt of the test results the multimedia analysis server may transmit a message back to the wireless device acknowledging receipt.

Computer platform may further include a communications module embodied in hardware software executable instructions data and combinations thereof operable to enable communications among the various components of the wireless device and wireless network . Communications module may comprise any component port interface that may include any point of entry into and or any point of exit from wireless device. As such communications module may include interface components for hardwired communications and for wireless communications.

In one aspect selected data may be transmitted over an open communication connection between the wireless device and the wireless network piggybacking on an ongoing voice or data call across an open connection. Alternatively in a cellular network configuration test data may be transmitted to multimedia analysis server through short message service SMS file transfer protocol FTP and hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Furthermore as previously noted another aspect of the multimedia analysis server may pull test data from the wireless device across the network on a scheduled or ad hoc basis.

In some aspects data transmission between the wireless device and remote devices e.g. multimedia analysis server and test workstation may be transmitted over a limited access communications channel through wireless network . The communication channel may be set up based upon a limited service configuration and may be used for transmitting test data to multimedia analysis server or for downloading at least portions of multimedia test engine and test configuration to wireless device . The limited access communications channel is generally not available to the end user and may be configured based on limited service setting that identifies allowable types of communications and the associated communication channels that may be utilized. Limited service configuration may be downloaded over wireless network may be locally transferred to wireless device such as through a serial connection or may be preloaded on the wireless device .

Referring to multimedia analysis server or plurality of servers may via communications module send software agents or applications such as any portion of multimedia test engine including test configuration to wireless device across wireless network . Multimedia analysis server may comprise at least one of any type of server personal computer mini computer mainframe computer or any computing device either special purpose or general computing device e.g. processor assembly . Further there can be separate servers or computer devices associated with multimedia analysis server that work in concert to provide data in usable formats to parties and or to provide a separate layer of control in the data flow between the wireless devices and multimedia analysis server .

Multimedia analysis server may further comprise a memory and a memory resident multimedia analysis module including software hardware data and generally any executable instructions operable to manage the collection and reporting of test data from at least one wireless device . For example server may include analysis control logic operable to control the operation of all components of multimedia analysis module 

Multimedia analysis module may further include information repository for storing test data received from wireless device and may comprise any type of memory or storage device. Furthermore information repository may store multimedia data transmitted to wireless device to be later compared with data received from the test engine .

Furthermore the multimedia analysis module may comprise a device control module operable by execution of control logic to either directly execute control command on wireless device or transmit control command to wireless device for local execution.

As previously disclosed multimedia analysis module is operable to receive wireless device test data store the data in information repository analyze the data and present the results to a test engineer . Analysis may include but is not limited to reports and presentations on data throughput vs. quality dropped frames video and or audio based on processing engine usage a comparison of multimedia API performance across multiple manufacturers firmware and models and a comparison of multimedia data quality between different wireless devices.

In some embodiments the analysis may be performed by analysis engine which may include one or any combination of hardware software firmware data decision making routines statistical programs fuzzy logic heuristic relationships neural networks for analyzing and interpreting received test data e.g. comparing video and sound frames received from the wireless device with video and sound frames transmitted to the wireless device . Furthermore analysis engine may compare performance data stored in information repository as part of test data with predetermined thresholds . Such threshold data may include RF environment data dropped frames etc.

For example in a case where a video conferencing related API is tested analysis engine may receive test data comprising received image data which may be compared to resident source image data in order to determine the performance of one or more APIs. For instance the received image data and source image data may be compared on a pixel by pixel basis to determine pixel loss. In another example analysis engine may correlate received performance data such as RF environmental data with the above described pixel by pixel analysis in an attempt to identify conditions relating to received image data quality.

In addition to providing the results of analysis engine the multimedia analysis module is operable to present a ready view of multimedia and RF related test information collected from the wireless devices in any form such as tables maps graphics views plain text interactive programs or web pages or any other display or presentation of the data. For example multimedia and RF related test information may be viewable online by a test engineer having access to remote server via HTTP HTTPS an FTP or some other data transfer protocol.

Furthermore in addition to being able to present the full analysis including graphs to an authorized user e.g. test engineer the multimedia analysis module may be operable to generate an electronic message e.g. e mail and facsimile to a device such as test workstation notifying the recipient of the availability of the data. Such a message may further comprise a report created by report generator module based upon the analyzed data.

Multimedia analysis module may further include a configuration generator module operable to generate the test configuration loaded onto wireless device . Referring to one embodiment of a configuration generator module may include hardware software firmware executable instructions data and or any other associated logic that allows the configuration generator module to generate test configuration . In some aspects configuration generator module may be operable to execute configuration logic that assembles the various components of a given configuration based on selections from a plurality of selectable test scripts and other parameters.

For example test engineer may load multiple sets of test scripts on remote server . However the test engineer may wish to test only a subset of the plurality of test scripts . Accordingly when building test configuration only those test scripts desired would be loaded into the test configuration to be downloaded to wireless device .

In some aspects configuration generator module may configure a plurality of parameters transmitted as part of test configuration and collectively referred to as test parameters in . In some aspects test parameters may include at least one reporting parameter selected from a plurality of reporting parameters . Each of the plurality of reporting parameters may determine when the corresponding collected statistics may be uploaded to remote server including but not limited to uploading upon the occurrence of a scheduled event at a predetermined time at a predetermined interval and upon receiving a command by a remote device such as by remote server and test workstation .

In one aspect the wireless device may transfer multimedia test data to the multimedia analysis server . In other embodiments the test engineer may wish the data to be stored on another device. Accordingly the plurality of reporting parameters may include a destination address of the uploaded test data .

Furthermore exercising and testing APIs may include transferring multimedia files between the wireless device and a device simulating a multimedia provider that may include the multimedia analysis server and the test workstation . Accordingly the plurality of reporting parameters may include an address of a network device with which the multimedia test engine may exercise data transfers with a multimedia data provider. Such a device may include test workstation and the multimedia analysis server .

In addition configuration generator module may include a plurality of wireless device performance parameters from which one or more parameters may be selected. The plurality of wireless device performance parameters enables an authorized user to configure the multimedia test engine to monitor and report any predetermined parameter that may be related to and or associated with wireless performance and testing e.g. RF environment parameters and dropped frames etc.

In addition rather than selecting the various parameters individually configuration logic may provide the user with the ability to select from a menu of a plurality of predetermined configurations including predetermined groupings of the above noted parameters comprising test configuration .

Further in some aspects the selected one of the plurality of wireless device types models and the selected one of the plurality of network service providers communication protocols may be correlated to a given one of a plurality of wireless device performance parameters . For example certain parameters may be unavailable or may not be relevant on CDMA enabled systems but may be available on UMTS systems and vice versa. Accordingly configuration logic may be able to determine which call monitoring capabilities the wireless device should have installed based on the associated device type network carrier and or communication protocol and thus may generate test configuration that includes the appropriate set of corresponding parameters.

Furthermore different network providers may utilize different mobile technologies e.g. CDMA and UMTS. Accordingly parameters that make up configuration may vary depending on the type make model of the wireless device and or the network service provider communications protocol. As such configuration logic may provide a user with the ability to select from a menu of a plurality of wireless device types models and a plurality of network service providers protocols in order to generate an appropriate menu from which to select the parameters of configuration .

Once the specific parameters of a given configuration are determined configuration logic may assign unique configuration ID to the given configuration storing this configuration in a library for later recall such as among plurality of predetermined monitoring test configurations . Further configuration logic and or another component of multimedia analysis module e.g. communications module may be operable to transmit configuration to one or more wireless devices to initiate the exercising and testing of multimedia APIs on that device.

The actual location of the disclosed components of the multimedia analysis module is non limiting and may be physically located on a server or other device connected to wireless network .

Referring to test workstation generally provides an interface to multimedia analysis server to access the functionality described herein. In other aspects one or more of the functionality of the system may be resident in the test workstation . In some aspects test workstation may be operable to store a set of test scripts generated by test engineer and download these scripts directly to wireless device and or indirectly via multimedia analysis server . Furthermore test workstation is operable to receive reports transmitted by multimedia analysis server or may view the results of analyzer on multimedia analysis server multimedia analysis server . In addition because wireless device wireless device may not have multimedia test engine resident in memory test workstation test workstation is operable to download multimedia test engine to wireless device either directly or indirectly via multimedia analysis server multimedia analysis server .

Test workstation test workstation may comprise at least one of any type of server personal computer mini computer mainframe computer terminal or any computing device either special purpose or general computing device operable to communicate with both wireless device and remote server . In one aspect test workstation may comprise a processing assembly and a communications module operable to transmit and receive messages and data between the test workstation the remote server wireless device as well as any network component on wireless network . In other aspects test workstation may reside on any network device of wireless network such as on multimedia analysis server another server connected to the network or even on a wireless device .

Test workstation may further comprise an input mechanism and an output mechanism interconnected to computer platform . The input mechanism and the output mechanism may permit a test engineer to interface with the test workstation the multimedia analysis server and ultimately with the wireless device .

The workstation computer platform may further comprise a memory for storing applications e.g. workstation control module and data files e.g. test scripts . Because the number of test workstations and the number of test engineers are non limiting user ID may be entered into memory by a test engineer and may be operable to identify the user of a particular test workstation to network components including remote server and wireless device .

The workstation control module may further include authorization logic operable in conjunction with Graphic User Interface GUI logic input mechanism and output mechanism to guide the test engineer through any analysis and command activity selection and transmission. The GUI logic may control for example e mail communication report presentation as well providing a menu by which a device control module similar in structure and function to the device control module of the multimedia analysis module . Furthermore a copy of multimedia test engine stored on the test workstation may permit a test operator to transmit at least a portion of the multimedia test engine to the wireless device and the multimedia analysis server .

Referring back to wireless network includes any communications network operable at least in part for enabling wireless communications between wireless device and any device connected to wireless network . Further wireless network may include all network components and all connected devices that form the network. For example wireless network may include at least one or any combination of a cellular telephone network a multicast network such as a Forward Link Only FLO network such as the MEDIAFLO System available from Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. a digital video broadcasting DVB network such as DVB S for satellite DVB C for cable DVB T for terrestrial television DVB H for terrestrial television for handhelds a terrestrial telephone network a satellite telephone network an infrared network such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA based network a short range wireless network a BLUETOOTH technology network a ZIGBEE protocol network an ultra wide band UWB protocol network a home radio frequency HomeRF network a shared wireless access protocol SWAP network a wideband network such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA network a wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance network and a 802.11 network a public switched telephone network a public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet a private communications network and a land mobile radio network.

Suitable examples of telephone networks include at least one or any combination of analog and digital networks technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS advanced mobile phone service AMPS time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA global system for mobile communications GSM single carrier 1X radio transmission technology RTT evolution data only EV DO technology general packet radio service GPRS enhanced data GSM environment EDGE high speed downlink data packet access HSPDA analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in at least one of a wireless communications network and a data communications network.

Referring to an aspect of a cellular wireless system comprises at least one wireless device and a cellular telephone wireless network connected to a wired network via a carrier network . Cellular telephone system is merely exemplary and may include any system whereby remote modules such as wireless devices communicate packets including voice and data over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers.

According to system multimedia analysis server may communicate over a wired network e.g. a local area network LAN with data repository for storing multimedia testing results gathered from wireless devices . Further a data management server may be in communication with multimedia analysis server to provide post processing capabilities data flow control etc. Multimedia analysis server data repository and data management server may be present on the cellular telephone system along with any other network components needed to provide cellular telecommunication services.

Multimedia analysis server and or data management server may communicate with carrier network through data links and such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . Further carrier network communicates with MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain old telephone service . Typically in network a network or Internet portion transfers data and the POTS portion transfers voice information. MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS by another network such as a data network and or Internet portion for data transfer and a POTS portion for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless devices by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods.

Referring to in some aspects a method for automatically exercising and testing multimedia APIs on a wireless device may include downloading at steps and multimedia test engine from the multimedia analysis server to wireless device . In other aspects multimedia test engine may be loaded into memory by other mechanisms including but not limited to being downloaded from any computer device connected to wireless network and being loaded from a computer device hardwired to wireless device .

At step the method may include the multimedia analysis server obtaining a test configuration operable to test a performance of one or more APIs. An authorized user such as test engineer operating test workstation and or multimedia analysis server may create one or more test scripts which may be included in the test configuration . In some aspects test configuration may be downloaded directly from workstation to wireless device .

At step the method may include the wireless device obtaining and parsing the test configuration . For example the multimedia analysis server may send a bootstrap command to the multimedia test engine on the wireless device via short message service SMS automatic call back or other over the air methods. Upon receipt of the bootstrap command the multimedia test engine may parse the command and establish a connection such as an HTTP connection with remote server over wireless network .

Still referring to step the multimedia test engine may initiate a download of test configuration including one or more test scripts from multimedia analysis server . Upon completion of the download process the multimedia test engine may transmit an acknowledgment message to the multimedia analysis server .

At step multimedia test engine on the wireless device may execute the test scripts . As previously disclosed test scripts may be written in any software language executable by processing engine including but not limited to PHP PERL XML a custom language and any combination thereof. Test scripts are operable to exercise and test multimedia APIs . Multimedia data and or files generated and transferred as a result of test scripts may be captured by reporting logic as test data .

In some aspects multimedia APIs operate locally and require no connection over wireless network . Accordingly RF environmental data may not be relevant in such instances. However in other aspects the testing of APIs may require a wireless connection to a device simulating a multimedia service provider.

For example in the process of executing the test script at step wireless device under control of multimedia test engine may establish via communications module an internet connection or some other communications connection with multimedia analysis server . Based upon a HTTP HTTPS an FTP or other data transfer protocol at step multimedia analysis server may transfer multimedia data and or files to wireless device . Based upon test configuration the monitoring and reporting logic may be operable to record the corresponding received multimedia data. Further the monitoring and reporting logic may be operable to record the API related performance with respect to the processing of the received multimedia data and or test scripts.

When testing with a multimedia service provider e.g. multimedia analysis server RF environmental data may be collected by the wireless device permitting test engineer to correlate multimedia performance with RF quality. RF environment data may be collected on the wireless device through one or more processing subsystems . For example such data may reside in at least one of the OEM layer the diagnostic system monitor and its BREW extension CDMA events and Over The Air OTA messages. Multimedia test engine is operable to store the RF environment data as performance data . The collected performance data is configurable based upon test script and or test parameters and may include but is not limited to Searcher and Finger Info for CDMA systems WCDMA Finger Info for TA for UMTS systems hand offs signal strength and in out service events.

Further at step the method may include the multimedia analysis server receiving the test data based on the execution of the test configuration from the wireless device . For example upon completion of execution of test scripts wireless device under control of multimedia test engine may initiate a transfer of test data to information repository using any communication means or connection to server to which the wireless device has access.

Test data received by the multimedia analysis server at step may include captured multimedia data performance data including RF environmental data and other test script results. Although multimedia test engine is operable to transmit test data upon completion of test scripts test engine may based upon test configuration upload test results as the data becomes available.

At the completion of the upload the multimedia analysis server may be operable to transmit an acknowledgment message to the wireless device indicating successful upload of the test data .

At step multimedia analysis module may process and analyze the collected data. In some aspects analysis engine is operable to process data stored in information repository and provide an analysis including visual displays of charts and graphs. Such analysis may include analyzing API performance with respect to executing the given test configuration including analyzing for example data throughput vs. quality dropped frames video and or audio and processor usage. Further the analysis may include a comparison of multimedia API performance across multiple manufacturers firmware and models and a comparison of multimedia data quality between different wireless devices. Furthermore when testing includes transmitting and or receiving multimedia to from a multimedia service provider i.e. the multimedia analysis server the analysis engine and the report generator are operable to produce analyses and reports that correlate multimedia data with RF environment data. As will be discussed below complete results of the analysis may be viewed online by an authorized user such as a user operating test workstation .

At step report generator is operable to produce a test report that includes at least a subset of the full analysis performed at step . In some embodiments the test report is generated by report generator operating on the results of the analysis of step . In other embodiments the report generator may generate report based upon the data in information repository .

At step the multimedia analysis server is operable to notify a predetermined party such as the test engineer that the analysis is complete and that the full analysis including graphs is available. For example the multimedia analysis module may be operable to generate an electronic message e.g. an e mail to a predetermined party such as the test workstation that includes report . The recipient e.g. the test engineer may view the test report and analyze the test results on the multimedia APIs .

Thus the described aspects allow a systematic and automatic method of exercising and testing multimedia APIs and may reduce the time required for regression testing by a chipset provider OEM.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or aspects it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or aspects as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or aspect may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or aspect unless stated otherwise.

