---

title: System and method for managing and distributing assets over a network
abstract: A system and method of managing assets on a distributed grid enabled network. The system and method includes sending, to a content provider, a conditional request to obtain a requested asset. The system and method further includes receiving, in response to the conditional request, information to identify a most recent copy of the requested asset, and transferring the requested asset to at least one grid enabled peer for subsequent downloading to a requesting client.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07970856&OS=07970856&RS=07970856
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07970856
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060602
---
The invention generally relates to a system and method for managing and distributing assets over a network and more particularly to a system and method for managing and distributing assets over a network using a grid distribution proxy solution.

Proxy servers and grid storage solutions are used to manage and distribute assets over a network. Content proxy servers often perform three key features in a network environment such as for example load balancing edging or caching and centralized traffic management. By way of example proxy servers serve as intermediaries in a network by intercepting all requests for data e.g. assets and determining which asset is served locally or alternatively which request is forwarded to a machine containing the requested asset or assets. Thus all network traffic flows through the proxy server rendering it a network bottleneck.

More specifically known proxy servers store a copy of requested files assets to reduce the amount of load presented to other network resources upstream such as a web server. The proxy server responds to requests by first checking that it has the latest copy and then responding with the locally stored or cached copy. Proxy servers also move assets closer to the edge of the network e.g. closer to the systems requesting the assets.

In one typical implementation of a proxy server deployment topology a client connects to the proxy server through a firewall. The proxy server issues a conditional HTTP GET against a web server that stores the requested asset. The proxy server either pulls the latest copy of the asset or serves the asset directly from the local cache. However the primary drawback for the traditional proxy server solution is that the proxy brokers all traffic. Thus even when the web server is providing the response the traffic flows back through the proxy server.

Accordingly there exists a need in the art to overcome the deficiencies and limitations described hereinabove.

In a first aspect of the invention a method includes sending to a content provider a conditional request to obtain a requested asset. The method further includes receiving in response to the conditional request information to identify a most recent copy of the requested asset and transferring the requested asset to at least one grid enabled peer for subsequent downloading to a requesting client.

In another aspect of the invention the method includes receiving a request from a client to retrieve an asset residing on a remote server. The method further includes determining that the client is grid enabled and that the asset is on the remote server. The method runs rules to determine whether the requested asset should be transferred from the remote server and stored on a distributed grid system. The requested asset is transferred to at least one node on the distributed grid system and the request is responded to with an N sourced message pointing to a location of the requested asset on the at least one node of the distributed grid system.

In yet another aspect of the invention a system comprises a grid storage proxy server having logic structured and adapted to provide autonomic functionality of grid storage management. The grid storage proxy server further has logic to receive a search request for an asset on a distributed grid network determine if the request is provided by a client which is grid enabled search for the requested asset on the distributed grid network and freshen the requested asset to at least one node on the distributed grid network based on at least one of attributes of the client and last update of the requested asset and provide instructions to the client to one of retrieve the requested asset from a predetermined node or nodes on the distributed grid network and from the grid storage proxy server.

In another aspect of the invention a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having readable program code embodied in the medium includes at least one component to 

receive in response to the conditional request information to identify a most recent copy of the requested asset and

transfer the requested asset to at least one grid enabled peer for subsequent downloading to a requesting client.

In another aspect of the invention a method for deploying an application for managing retrieving and sending assets from a distributed network includes providing a computer infrastructure being operable to 

Grid distribution systems distribute a single asset transfer over multiple servers and multiple network connections. Grid distribution systems offer many advantages to that of traditional asset distribution systems in that they are centrally managed through a master server and virtually any computer on the network can be leveraged as part of a localized distributed file transfer. The multi source transfer enables increase efficiencies of network bandwidth however management of the grid asset base requires human intervention.

To achieve the efficiencies of grid distribution systems combinations of servers and clients respond to segmented requests allowing peer clients to pull larger fragments faster from multiple sources. This stresses each serving node for a shorter period at faster intervals and the client maximizes bandwidth throughput assuming there are no artificial limitations. Being more specific in one implementation of a grid distribution system an upload client pushes the asset s to a grid management server. The grid management server can be thought of as a master. The master server then manages the asset distribution to the grid enabled download peers. When a client makes a request for an asset it connects to the master server and is provided all the grid nodes the asset resides on. In this manner the client retrieves the asset through a multi sourced file transfer.

With the clients often tightly coupled with storage management servers and file transfer methods the clients make specific requests to identify the peers that have the asset. This process takes place out of band to that of normal network traffic. For example a web page download is made up of a series of assets html images audio and video . Each of these assets is requested from a web server or proxy server.

The invention is directed to a system and method for managing and distributing assets over a network and more particularly to a system and method for managing and distributing assets over a network implementing a grid distribution proxy solution. The invention includes a system and method for creating a grid storage proxy server which enables ad hoc grid storage management client identification and grid identified response. By way of one implementation the invention uses a grid storage proxy server which analyzes traffic to determine if it should be distributed via a grid distribution system and dynamically rerouted. In one aspect the grid storage proxy server removes and updates identified assets e.g. content based on rules maintained by the grid storage proxy server. The gird storage proxy might also be controlled not only by rules but via an API application programming interface e.g. web services REST representational state transfer interface proprietary implementation . In addition to other features the grid storage proxy server monitors and updates asset freshness in a variety of methods eliminating the need for administrators or asset producers to engage in grid storage management issues.

In the grid distribution environment of the invention significant network and infrastructure cost savings are realized by delivering the asset via multiple sources by in one example providing autonomic functionality of grid storage management. The invention thus provides the benefits of network proxy topologies and distributed asset management.

In any event the computing device can comprise any general purpose computing article of manufacture capable of executing computer program code installed thereon e.g. a personal computer server handheld device etc. . However it is understood that the computing device is only representative of various possible equivalent computing devices that may perform the processes described herein. To this extent in other embodiments the functionality provided by computing device can be implemented by a computing article of manufacture that includes any combination of general and or specific purpose hardware and or computer program code. In each embodiment the program code and hardware can be created using standard programming and engineering techniques respectively.

Similarly the computer infrastructure is only illustrative of various types of computer infrastructures for implementing the invention. For example in one embodiment the computer infrastructure comprises two or more computing devices e.g. a server cluster that communicate over any type of communications link such as a network a shared memory or the like to perform the process described herein. Further while performing the process described herein one or more computing devices in the computer infrastructure can communicate with one or more other computing devices external to computer infrastructure using any type of communications link. In either case the communications link can comprise any combination of various types of wired and or wireless links comprise any combination of one or more types of networks e.g. the Internet a wide area network a local area network a virtual private network etc. and or utilize any combination of various types of transmission techniques and protocols.

The one or more grid storage proxy server contributes removes and updates identified assets content based on rules maintained by the grid storage proxy server . An illustrative rule may read for example 

Additional and or alternative grid storage rules are also contemplated by the invention. For example the rule sets used for determining grid proxy promotion include but are not limited to the following metrics in any combination 

The grid storage proxy server might also be managed or controlled by an API e.g. web services REST interface proprietary implementation either by itself or in combination with rules. In implementation the third party application may interface with the grid storage proxy server to instruct further actions including requesting an asset to be managed removed or updated by the grid storage proxy server. Thus for example instead of waiting for the system to realize the asset is outdated the API e.g. third party can force the grid storage proxy server to remove the asset from the grid.

In one implementation the client identifies a file asset it would like to download from the server which is located behind the grid storage proxy server and requests such asset from the grid storage proxy server . The grid storage proxy server in turn makes a conditional request to the server using an HTTP GET command for example. The server in response provides information about the asset e.g. last update to the grid storage proxy server .

Using the information provided by the server the grid storage proxy server can identify the latest copy of the asset for example. Using this information the grid storage proxy server can determine whether it has the latest copy and in embodiments whether it needs to copy the asset to either the grid storage proxy server or the grid server service interface .

By way of one non limiting illustration if the grid storage proxy server does not have the latest version of the asset it may request a download of the latest copy from the server or alternatively provide a URI Uniform Resource Identifier to the grid server service interface for downloading of the asset itself. If the grid storage proxy server downloads the asset it may provide such asset directly to the grid server service interface . Once the asset is downloaded to the grid server service interface it may be pushed to any of the grid enabled peers . In embodiments the client may also become one of the grid enabled peers.

In one example a return message may be provided to the client from the grid storage proxy server indicating the location of the asset on the grid. This will allow the client to establish a multi sourced file transfer automatically. In other words the client is able to retrieve the asset from one or more of the grid enabled peers .

In one non limiting illustration the message may be for example in the form of a SOAP simple object asset protocol response where an XML fragment describes the data required to process the grid transfer. Alternatively the response might come in the form of a redirect URL Uniform Resource Locator which either contains a special path as part of the URL or simply points to a host name governed by round robin DNS. Round robin DNS is a hostname www.example server hostname.com that resolves differently each time a request is made to retrieve its IP address. This forces load distribution at the DNS level. In another example the URL might simply be that of the traditional Grid Management Server.

In one implementation as part of the HTTP request header a user agent may be sent to identify the type of client requesting the content. Servers use user agents to identify other capabilities that might not be supported by all servers but needs to be identified. In the case the grid storage proxy server identifies that the client is grid enabled instructions can be provided to the client so that it can retrieve the content from the grid as describe above. However if the client is not grid enabled the response would have been served from the HTTP server but ultimately it would have transferred from the grid storage proxy server .

In a more specific illustration of the client requests an asset from the grid storage proxy server . The grid storage proxy server depending on a set of predefined rules as exemplified above will query the server for the asset. The grid storage proxy server may acquire the asset from the server or in embodiments determine that it already has a most recent version of the asset. The asset can be loaded to the grid server service interface which in turn provides content management to the grid enabled peers e.g. propagate the content to the peer. In implementations the grid storage proxy server may provide a URI to the grid server service interface which can use the URI to obtain the asset directly from the web server . This same process may be used to pull the asset from the grid server service interface .

During this exchange the grid storage proxy server may determine whether the client is grid enabled. If the client is grid enabled the grid storage proxy server may transmit a SOAP which lists the peers having the assets. The client using these instructions may then access and downloads the asset on the grid distribution system . Variations can be created between the method of communicating between the client and the grid storage proxy server once the client has been identified as being grid capable. This alternative communication may be a protocol identifier e.g. gridftp host uid asset .

The grid storage proxy server may elect to remove the file asset from the grid distribution system after it is used by the client. The rule for this example might read 

At step the grid storage proxy server will handle a request from a client by processing the HTTP GET request as discussed above. At step a determination is made as to whether the client is grid enabled. If the client is not grid enabled at step a determination is made as to whether the asset is local on the grid storage proxy server. If the asset is local a header is checked on the asset to determine if the asset is fresh at steps and . If the asset is fresh the grid storage proxy server will respond with the asset at step . If the content is not local at step the grid storage proxy server will fetch the asset and store the asset. Again at step the grid storage proxy server will respond with the asset.

If at step it is determined that the client is grid enabled the flow will continue to step . At step a determination is made as to whether the asset is on the grid. If the asset is not on the grid the grid storage proxy server will store the event and run rules to determine whether the grid storage proxy server should obtain the asset from a server at step . At step a counter may be used to determine how many times the asset was requested by clients. This may be useful when implementing certain rules such as for example storing the asset on the grid if it was requested more than 10 times in the last minute.

At step a determination is made as to whether the asset should be stored on the distributed grid system. If not the logic proceeds to step . If the asset is to be stored on the grid at step the content is stored and tables are updated showing the placement of such asset s on the grid. The flow then proceeds to either step or . At step the content is updated and the logic returns to step . At step on the other hand the grid storage proxy server will respond to the client with an N sourced message. This message may include for example the location of the asset on one or more of the grid enabled peers.

At step the second system responds with the asset or pointers to other grid enabled peers. The pointers to other grid enabled peers may further be determined based on attributes describing the client or requester in relation to other grid nodes such as for example geographic location organizational rank affiliations in a group subnet to a host of other attributes. The pointers might include a structured markup list. At step other grid enabled peers are determined by a third system such as the grid storage management system grid server service interface described above. At step the first system receives the information which is the asset or the pointers to other grid enabled peers. The first system is then capable of contacting each peer to proceed with the data transfer.

At step the second system manages the file distribution from source to grid which may be a push or pull process. In implementations the grid nodes are sent URIs of assets to i refresh the assets ii push assets from the proxy or iii send messages facilitating grid distribution. The steps to may be implemented by a third system such as an additional server. The steps to may run asynchronous to any transaction.

At least two approaches are contemplated to propagate assets from the grid storage proxy server or web server to a content management peer or other distribution servers peers . First the distribution servers peers can connect to the grid storage proxy server or web server to transfer a copy of the original file. Second as the file is propagated through the network distribution servers can connect to a content management peer to identify which peers of the network are capable of serving all or part of the asset in question. In this way as the file is replicated to the distribution servers there are more points on the network to transfer from thus increasing overall speed in replicating the asset on the network.

More specifically referring to at step distribution servers can connect to a content management peer to identify which peers of the network are capable of serving all or part of the asset in question. At step the content management peer grid is connected to and a request is provided to the peers which have the asset. At step the list of distribution servers is received by the client and the client will begin the multithreaded multi point transfer from all the distribution servers. At step the content management peer is updated as a new distribution server with the asset.

In embodiments the examples provided herein may be implemented and executed from either a server in a client server relationship or they may run on a user workstation with operative information conveyed to the user workstation to create the navigation outlined above. Additionally the invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements.

In an embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc. Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD RAN and DVD.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

In another embodiment the invention provides a business method that performs the process steps of the invention on a subscription advertising and or fee basis. That is a service provider such as a Solution Integrator could offer to manage and distribute content over a network. In this case the service provider can create maintain support etc. a computer infrastructure that performs the process steps of the invention for one or more customers. In return the service provider can receive payment from the customer s under a subscription and or fee agreement and or the service provider can receive payment from the sale of advertising content to one or more third parties.

While the invention has been described in terms of embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modifications and in the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

