---

title: System and method for effecting auction item payments through a network portal
abstract: A merchant/seller portal enables sellers of auction items on Internet auction sites to obtain cash payments from buyers identified only by their buyer pseudonyms. The portal includes an open network interface, a seller database in which data associated with a seller are stored, a buyer manager for verifying auction purchase data received from a merchant terminal, an auction site manager for verifying auction transaction data with an auction site server, and an auction payment manager for communicating data messages with an auction payment server to transfer funds for a verified auction transaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08577744&OS=08577744&RS=08577744
owner: Datascape, Inc.
number: 08577744
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061227
---
This application claims priority from pending and commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 393 134 which is entitled System And Method For Facilitating Transactions Through A Network Portal and which was filed on Mar. 30 2006.

This disclosure relates generally to portals accessible via computer communication networks and more particularly to portals for facilitating payment transactions.

The Internet has enabled significant electronic commerce to develop over the last two decades. Most typically this e commerce is supported by a website that transmits information about products or services being offered for sale and that processes orders and payments for sales of those products and services. The website is implemented with a computer typically called a server that may be coupled to one or more databases or other computers executing support applications. The server may be coupled to the databases and supporting computers through a common gateway interface or CGI. The data regarding the products and services are contained within files transmitted over a global open computer network known as the Internet. These files may be HTML and XML documents for example that are sent to client programs executing on customer computers that are coupled to the Internet. These client programs may be application programs called browsers. The files transmitted to the client programs may also include forms that have objects embedded within them. These objects may be used to communicate information between the client program and the website. This bi directional communication of information enables a user to shop for goods and services place an order with a website for goods and or services submit payment for the order and arrange shipping to the desired recipient.

This form of e commerce has been greatly enhanced by search engines. Search engines are implemented with significant computer resources that are coupled together and made available at a single address on the Internet. The databases at the search engine contain metadata that has been obtained from websites on the Internet. The computer resources at a search engine process an unstructured request by a user to provide a user with a hit list of websites that contain metadata related to the user s query. The search engine provides a short excerpt or summary of the information available at a website contained within a hit list to indicate the reason that the website was selected for inclusion in the hit list. The user may explore the websites provided in a hit list without losing the hit list generated by the search engine. Thus the user is able to sift through a hit list and evaluate multiple sources for the goods and services being sought by the user.

Being near the top of a hit list is important for sales. Most e commerce consumers do not exhaustively search the entries in a hit list. Rather many consumers make a decision after visiting five to ten websites. Navigating through a website can be time consuming and depending on the bandwidth of the communication conduit to the consumer s computer and the processing resources of the website and the consumer s computer can be a tedious and frustrating journey. To improve the likelihood that a seller s website is brought to a consumer s attention sooner rather than later in a hit list portals were developed. Portals enable multiple providers of goods and services to be presented to a user at a single website address. That is a portal is an electronic version of a mall or shopping center. The diversity of the goods and services offered through the portal increases the likelihood that the metadata for the portal satisfies a user s query and that the portal address is displayed in a hit list. Moreover the concentration of related websites available through a portal may score higher in the search engines criteria for prioritizing the hit list entries. This higher score enables the portal address to have a greater chance of being ranked highly in a hit list generated by a search engine than a website for a single source of goods or services.

Other variations in e commerce have arisen as well. One variation is the electronic auction. In one version of the auction sellers list items with an electronic auction house. The electronic auction house has a single Internet address and a search engine for the site. The search engine enables a potential buyer to obtain a list of items being offered for sale. When an item is selected from the list a picture of the item is displayed along with some information about the item provided by the seller. Additionally a rating for the seller may be provided. This information may be used by the buyer to assess the risk that the seller s representations are not completely accurate or that the seller does not timely deliver the item. After viewing the item and related information the buyer may enter a bid along with identifying information such as an email address. At the expiration of the auction period for the item the highest bidder is notified by email that he or she has won the item. The buyer then needs to pay for the item. Some buyers provide payment by mailing a check or money order to the seller. Others use credit cards or a third party payment service. A third party payment service requires a buyer to establish an account with the payment service. Along with personal identification information the buyer provides data to identify a payment source such as a credit card debit card or other demand account associated with the buyer. After the seller receives payment the item is shipped to the buyer.

Another electronic marketplace accessible over the Internet solicits data from users and then sells access to the database compiled from the collected data. For example MONSTER.COM website solicits resumes from Internet users and compiles those resumes into a database. Employers register with the website operator and pay a fee to search the database for qualified applicants and to post job openings in the operator s database. Public users search the job postings database and submit their resumes. The resumes submitted for a job opening are filtered by the website operator with an employer s criteria for applicants before being presented to a posting employer. In this type of electronic market the website operator collects a fee for building the resume database and for filtering responses to an employer s job postings.

In the transaction systems discussed above constraints exist that restrain the robustness of the commerce implemented with such systems. For example the electronic auction is hampered by the inability to accept cash payments. Literally millions of persons wanting to remain anonymous do not establish bank accounts or credit card accounts in this country. Consequently these persons do not have a relationship with a bank so they cannot use electronic funds transaction messages to settle an order. Without a checking account they are unable to write and send checks to the seller to consummate a sale. Although a money order may be used to pay a seller a risk exists that a money order or any other paper instrument sent by mail may be lost or that the seller will simply cash the paper instrument without sending the goods. Additionally large volume vendors incur a significant expense to process paper instruments mailed to the vendor for payment of goods. What is needed is a way to pay cash for goods over the Internet without requiring a buyer to have a relationship with a bank or other financial institution to obtain a paper instrument and mail it to the seller.

Even retail sites use the Internet for transactions. For example point of sale POS terminals may be used to communicate with vendor websites to facilitate sales of secure items. One type of secure item that may be sold using a POS terminal communicating over the Internet is a calling card that is dispensed from a kiosk or purchased and activated at a convenience store counter. Upon presentation of payment a cashier or buyer navigates through a set of menus and populates forms with data that are sent to the vendor website. In response to the data retrieved from the transmitted form the vendor site issues an activation code for a calling card account that is transmitted to the kiosk or POS terminal. To obtain these agents for sales of calling cards telecommunications carriers solicit bids by sending sales agents to the managers and or owners of convenience stores and other establishments to negotiate and sign contracts for governing the sales loss and commissions for the phone cards. Once the contracts are finalized and executed the carrier installs proprietary terminals for managing the calling card transactions in a store or multiple branches. The sales location then collects payments for the cards and remits the portion of the payment due the carrier under the agreement.

The resources to address the need for personally soliciting agents to handle in store sales can be significant for website vendors. The maintenance of a sales force and the need to install proprietary terminals or software for managing the sales eats into profit margins for this intensely competitive market. The expense of finding a new agent removing the proprietary terminals and installing them in a new location encourages a vendor to tolerate poorly performing agents rather than to terminate the agent and find another agent. Likewise retail agents desire competition for their distribution services and want to know other possible vendors that could replace poorly performing vendors. What is needed is an efficient method for securing sales agents located at brick and mortar locations. What is needed is a way to facilitate interaction between vendors and their sales agents located at brick and mortar locations. What is need is a way of providing sales agents at retail locations with information regarding vendor candidates for the goods and services that the agent wants to offer at the retail location.

Another limitation of previously known electronic markets is the absence of information regarding business opportunities and partners for the retail market. Requests for proposals and bid requests are not available over the Internet except possibly by discovering a website posting a business opportunity with the aid of a search engine. This type of search requires knowledge of an industry to locate a potential business opportunity candidate. Search engines are designed to promote advertising for consumers so the hit lists generated in an effort to locate business opportunities are not likely to rank the most promising leads for business ventures highly. Moreover these types of searches use keywords or metadata and do not support the use of structured search terms business metric data or business profile data. Additionally the quality of the information exchanged in this public forum is generally unreliable and requires verification. What is needed is a forum for businesses to solicit and obtain business partners based on the exchange of reliable information without requiring extensive out of network research.

An auction payment support portal enables sellers of auction items on Internet auction sites to obtain cash payments from buyers identified only by their buyer pseudonyms. The portal includes an open network interface a seller database in which data associated with a seller are stored a buyer manager for verifying auction purchase data received from a merchant terminal an auction site manager for verifying auction transaction data with an auction server and a transaction payment manager for communicating data messages with an auction payment service server to transfer funds for a verified auction transaction.

A method may be implemented by an auction payment support portal that enables buyers to pay for auctioned items with cash. The method includes storing data associated with a seller in a database verifying auction purchase data received from a merchant terminal verifying auction transaction data with an auction site server and communicating data messages with an auction payment service server to transfer funds for a verified auction transaction.

An exemplary system that may be used to implement the portal is shown in . The system includes a network communication interface that may include a public party interface and a registered party interface . The public party interface may be coupled to a public presentation layer . The public presentation layer is coupled to one or more databases to provide content to users through the public interface . Also an enrollment manager may be coupled to public presentation layer to obtain data for registering vendors and merchants with the portal . Data for the users that have been accepted as members of the portal are stored by the enrollment manager in the registrant database . The public presentation layer may also be coupled to a ratings manager . The ratings manager receives ratings for vendors through the public presentation layer and stores the rating data in a ratings database .

Ratings manager may also be coupled to the registered party interface through the private presentation layer . Through this more secure communication path the ratings manager receives rating data for merchants from vendors and these data are stored in the ratings database . Additionally the vendors may access these merchant rating data only through the registered party interface and the private presentation layer . The private presentation layer also coupled the registered party interface to a distribution contract manager an order manager and a transaction manager . The distribution contract manager communicates with a business partner candidate by sending a distribution contract to a business partner candidate verifying the data in the distribution contract form and submitting the distribution contract data to a vendor for acceptance. The order manager communicates with a consumer at a registered terminal through the private presentation layer to generate and evaluate messages associated with the placing of an order for goods or services from a vendor. The transaction manager communicates with a merchant bank s and a vendor to generate appropriate messages to post a transaction to a vendor or bank void a transaction inquire into an account settle a transaction pay commissions and convenience fees or report settlement to the appropriate parties although the order manager may be used for some or all of these messages as well. Data generated by the transaction manager regarding transactions are stored in settlement database .

The system is coupled to registered retail terminals and customer kiosks through an open network . The retail terminals may be point of sale POS terminals or computers such as personal computers on which application programs execute that support transactions with the portal . Retail terminals also include PDA and wireless telephone devices that have the capability of communicating data over an open network. These devices include a portable integrated circuit having a processor and memory space for executing application programs. Examples of such integrated circuits include a subscriber identity module SIM for use in a GSM network or a user identity module UIM for use in a CDMA network. Additionally smart cards may be carried by authorized users at a retail merchant for use at a registered terminal. The smart card communicates with a POS terminal or PC in a known manner. These portable devices and smart cards have the capability of hosting and executing merchant application software. Merchant application software either executing on one of these portable devices a POS terminal or PC or in a smart card unit is used to store and manage data such as merchant identifiers and vendor identifiers authenticate users of registered terminals authenticate registration of a retail terminal encrypt data being communicated and manipulating data for posting a transaction to the portal. These terminals computers and or portable devices are registered with the portal by the enrollment manager as described more fully below. The kiosks may either be kiosks owned and operated by a merchant or by a vendor.

The open network may be any computer communication network that supports an open network protocol. The open network may also be coupled to the automatic clearinghouse ACH network that is well known and used for the communication of electronic fund transaction EFT messages between financial institutions. Alternatively the portal may be coupled to the ACH network through a point to point communication path. Portal may communicate with retail terminals e commerce vendors a kiosk interface and an automatic clearinghouse interface over the open network using known encryption methods for example. Additionally portal may also communicate over one or more private networks. Thus also shows the transaction manager being coupled to a private network for communications with a vendor .

A diagram of the member enrollment function for the portal is shown in . To perform this function portal communicates with retail merchants and vendors . The retail merchant group in includes the retail merchants and the owners operators of the ATM kiosk networks shown in . Likewise the vendor group includes the e commerce vendors the vendors and the utilities and service providers depicted in . The merchants and vendors may apply for admission to the portal through the public interface . The portal communicates with the retail merchants and the vendors to build the member or registrant database . During the enrollment function the portal receives authorization from an applicant to obtain a credit report and the credit report for the applicant received from the credit reporting bureau is stored in the registrant database in association with the applicant s other data. The portal may generate EFT messages for a membership fee and the fee message is sent through the ACH network to the portal s bank . The bank generates EFT messages to obtain the membership fee from the applicant s bank and return a remittance message to the portal .

An exemplary method for performing the membership function is shown in . The function includes the portal receiving from a merchant or a vendor a membership request message through the public network interface block . The enrollment manager retrieves a membership request form that is returned to the applicant block . The applicant populates the form with the requested data and returns the form to the portal block . These data include data identifying the applicant the applicant s business and the business location among other possible data items.

As noted above the applicants are evaluated before being admitted to membership in the portal. To this end the membership form includes an object for obtaining basic applicant data as well as objects for obtaining authorizations for a credit report and for payment of an application fee. The enrollment manager uses the data in the returned form to build database records for the applicant in the registrant database block . The enrollment manager also generates an EFT message for the authorized amount and sends the message to the portal s bank for settlement with the applicant s bank block . A returned remittance message is evaluated block and the enrollment function determines whether the application fee was paid block . If the fee was not paid a membership denied message is generated and sent to the applicant block . If the fee was paid temporary membership status is granted and the applicant s database records are updated to reflect the temporary status block . The enrollment function then generates a credit report request block and sends it to the credit reporting agency block . Upon receipt of the credit report block the enrollment function determines whether the applicant s credit score meets the portal s criteria for membership admittance block . If it does satisfy the criteria the applicant s records are updated to indicate the applicant as been admitted as a member block . An admission message is generated and sent to the applicant block . The admission message includes a registration number for the newly admitted member. If the credit score does not meet the portal s admittance criteria block the applicant s database records are updated to indicate admission was denied block and a membership denied message is generated and sent to the applicant block . Alternatively such a member may be allowed with restrictions such as limited credit or pre funded credit. In this manner the enrollment function evaluates and selectively admits merchants and vendors to the membership of the portal.

A diagram of the search and advertising function for the portal is shown in . To perform this function portal communicates with retail merchants and vendors . Merchants may use the search and advertising function to query the portal for goods and services offered by particular registered vendors or to query the portal for the identification of registered vendors that offer particular goods or services. These queries may be processed through the public network interface and the querying merchant need not be a member of the portal. Pricing information for goods or services available from one or more particular registered vendors may be handled through the public or registered interfaces depending on the preferences of the portal and its members. If pricing information is not considered sensitive information a merchant may obtain it from the portal through the public network interface. If the pricing information is deemed sensitive the merchant may be required to become a member of the portal. In this scenario the merchant is routed to the enrollment function for membership processing. Once the merchant is enrolled and has received a registration number the merchant is able to communicate with the portal through the registered party interface to search the pricing information associated with the vendors identified in a merchant s query. The pricing data is stored in association with the vendor in the registrant database .

Registered vendors may also search the database for merchants that are business partner candidates. To perform this type of search a registered vendor logs onto the portal through the registered party interface. Once the vendor s membership is confirmed the vendor requests access to the database for a business partner candidate search. The portal responds by sending the vendor a form for authorization to obtain a search fee from the vendor s bank. Once the form is returned with authorization granted the portal generates messages for obtaining the search fee using the bank data stored for the vendor in the registrant database. The messages are sent to the portal s bank for remittance to the portal s bank account. Once a remittance message is received indicating the search fee has been credited to the portal s account the vendor is authorized to search the registrant database for business partner candidates. Alternatively the portal may evaluate credit data stored in association with the vendor and grant the vendor access before receipt of the remittance message.

A vendor that has paid the search fee may search the registrant database for a business partner candidate. The vendor may use a variety of search criteria such as consumer demographics for an area credit worthiness merchant profile number of stores location of stores merchant rating years in business sales volume retail industry SIC code and product types for example. In one scenario a jewelry wholesaler may search the database for a retail merchant in a particular zip code known to have a high income per capita in a major metropolitan area with high volume traffic parameters. Once a vendor has searched the database and the portal has generated a hit list of business partner candidates that match the vendor s criteria the vendor may determine whether any of the candidates are to be offered a business partner opportunity.

An exemplary method for performing the search and advertise function is shown in FIGS. B and B. The function determines whether a search or directed advertising is being requested block . For directed advertising the function determines whether the requester is a merchant or a vendor block . If the requester is a merchant the directed advertising request is denied block . If the requester is a vendor a form is sent to the requester to obtain authorization for an advertising fee block . Once the form is returned the function determines whether the authorization was received block . If it was not the request is denied block . If authorization for fee payment was received messages are generated and sent to the portal s bank for obtaining fee remittance block . If the responsive remittance message is evaluated to determine whether the fee was paid block . If the fee was not paid the request is denied block . If the fee is paid the advertisement and directed advertising data is accepted block . The advertisement and identified merchant data are used to send the advertisement to the registered merchants identified by the vendor block . One way that vendors may identify merchants for advertising is to use a hit list from a prior search stored in the vendor s profile. The vendor may also identify merchants for directed advertising by providing a set of search criteria that the portal uses to perform a merchant search discussed below to generate a hit list. The hit list may then be used to identify the merchants for the directed advertising. Positive responses to the directed advertising are forwarded to the vendor block .

If the search and advertise function determines the request is a search request the function parses the query to determine whether it is a public or private query block . If it is a public request it is a request from a merchant to search the publicly available vendor records in the registrant database for locating vendors or to identify the goods or services available from the vendor. The search criteria that a merchant may use may include vendor rating DUN BRADSTREET rating credit score industry SIC code products services pricing commissions taxes and convenience fees. The query is used to interrogate the registrant database for responsive records from the publicly available data for registered vendors block . The responsive records are retrieved block and presented in a hit list to the requesting merchant block . In the search request a merchant may specify a period of time for search activity. In response the portal performs the search on a daily or other periodic basis during the specified time. This enables the merchant to be notified of new vendors joining the portal that meet the merchant s search criteria.

If the query requires data from the restricted data stored in the registrant database the function determines whether the requester is a registered member block and if not access to the restricted portion of the database is denied block . If the requester is a member the function then determines whether the registered member is a merchant or a vendor block . A merchant s query is for pricing or other competitive sensitive information stored in association with a vendor. The query is used to interrogate the registrant database for responsive records from the restricted data for the vendors identified by the query block . The responsive records are retrieved block and the vendors profiles checked to determine whether the vendor is included in the hit list block . In a vendor s profile the vendor may store one or more merchant criteria. Responsive vendor records associated with a vendor that specified criteria not met by a merchant s profile are removed from the responsive records for the search block . Otherwise the vendor s records are removed from the responsive records. The vendor records responsive to the merchant s search query and that are not excluded by the vendor s criteria for merchants are presented in a hit list to the requesting merchant block .

A vendor s request for searching restricted information associated with merchants is a query for business partner candidates. For this type of query the function sends a form to the requesting vendor to obtain authorization for a search fee block . Once the form is returned the function determines whether the authorization was received block . If it was not the request is denied block . If authorization for fee payment was received messages are generated and sent to the portal s bank for obtaining fee remittance block . If the responsive remittance message indicates the fee was not paid block the request is denied block . If the fee is paid the vendor s query is used to interrogate the registrant database for responsive records from the restricted data for the merchants meeting the criteria in the query block . The responsive records are retrieved block and presented in a hit list to the requesting merchant block . The vendor may also store the search criteria as merchant criteria. The vendor may also specify a time period for the search so it is conducted periodically before the hit list is generated and provided to the vendor. Specifying a time period enables a vendor to detect new merchants that satisfy the search criteria during the specified time period.

A diagram of the vendor approval function for the portal is shown in . To perform this function portal coordinates communication between a retail merchant and a vendor . The vendor initiates the vendor approval function. This initiation may result from a vendor selecting one of the merchants in a hit list generated from a business partner candidate search. Alternatively a merchant may have joined the portal and searched for a vendor with acceptable prices for goods. Such a merchant may submit a request for a business opportunity with the vendor either within the portal or directly through an email or the like. Once a vendor decides to explore a business opportunity with a merchant the vendor logs into the portal through the registered party interface and communicates with the distribution contract manager. The vendor identifies a merchant as a business partner candidate and indicates whether any of the terms in a particular distribution contract stored in association with the vendor in the restricted portion of the registrant database are to be modified. Once the final form of the contract is established the distribution contract manager sends the distribution contract to the email address associated with the merchant in the registrant database. The merchant indicates in a responsive message whether the contract is acceptable and if not which terms require modification. The contract manager submits the response to the vendor. The vendor then either accepts or rejects the contract. If the contract is accepted the contract may be electronically signed by the parties. An accepted contract is stored in the registrant database to govern future transactions between the vendor and the merchant. The terms of the accepted contract are used to generate the EFT and settlement messages for fund transfers between the merchant s bank the vendor s bank and the portal s bank . If the contract is rejected the vendor may further negotiate the agreement or attempt to establish a contract with another registered merchant.

An exemplary method for performing the vendor approval function is shown in . The function receives a request for business solicitation from a vendor block . A business solicitation is generated and sent to the merchant identified in the business solicitation request block . The function determines whether the response indicates an interest in the solicitation block . If no interest is indicated a message informing the vendor that the solicitation was declined is generated and sent block . Otherwise an interest message is generated and sent to the vendor block . The function receives a message from the vendor authorizing the presentation of a distribution contract to the merchant block . In response the distribution contract manager generates a distribution contract offer using the identification data for the merchant and the vendor the distribution contract associated with the vendor and the term modifiers if any sent with the authorization message block . The contract offer is then sent to the merchant block . The merchant s response is parsed to determine whether the merchant returned the contract offer for submission to the vendor as sent block with modified terms block or rejected for submission block . If the offer was submitted as sent or with modified terms a contract offer submission is generated and sent to the vendor block . Otherwise a message is generated and sent to the vendor indicating the merchant is not interested in submitting a contract offer block . The vendor s response to a contract offer is parsed to determine whether the contract offer was accepted by the vendor block . If it was the contract is stored in the registrant database for governance of transactions between the vendor and the merchant block . If the vendor s response indicates modification of the offer s terms are being extended block negotiation of the contract offer terms may continue through the distribution contract manager until the contract offer is accepted or rejected blocks . Otherwise a message indicating the vendor s rejection is generated and sent to the merchant block .

Following vendor approval of a merchant a merchant deployment function is performed to register the terminals computers and or portable devices associated with the merchant for transactions. In this function the retail merchant sends identifying data for each POS terminal PC smart card PDA wireless telephone or other portable device that may be used to place orders for a vendor s goods or services. Additionally the merchant submits user identification and passwords for personnel authorized to perform transactions for a vendor s goods or services. These data are stored in association with the registered and approved merchant. A merchant may also identify an administrator who is authorized to change the approved user list for a merchant and to change passwords for the approved users. The portal generates registration data that is returned to a terminal being registered. This registration data may be stored in the data registry of the terminal or portable device or in some other memory associated with the terminal or portable device. The registration data for the terminal or portable device is sent to the portal for verification of the terminal or portable device registration during execution of a transaction.

An exemplary process for implementing the merchant deployment function is shown in . The process sends an approved merchant a form for identifying the terminals that are used to initiate transactions for a vendor s goods or services block . The terminals may be POS terminals PCs smart cards PDAs wireless telephones or other portable devices operated by store personnel self checkout terminals ATMs or kiosks. Upon receipt of the form the data in the form are processed and stored in the merchant s data records in the registrant database block . Another form for identifying authorized personnel and their requested passwords is sent to the merchant block . Upon receipt of this form the data contained in the form are processed block . If any password is unacceptable as being too short duplicative or other valid security reason block the form is returned to the merchant for correction block . Otherwise the data are stored in the merchant s data records block . These data may be stored in the merchant device being registered. Users of self checkout counters ATMs or kiosks are not considered authorized terminal users. While such persons may use these devices to place an order they cannot use the devices to update or modify data stored in the portal.

Consumers may also use the system shown in to place an order by coupling to the Internet to browse a website associated with a merchant . The website may be accessible through the public interface of the portal or it may be operated by the merchant separately from the portal. The consumer may place an order for product or services with the website and obtain an order number from the website. The order is temporarily stored for some specified time. The consumer then takes the order number to the merchant s retail location where the consumer presents it to a cashier at a POS terminal computer or portable device or the consumer may scan the order at a self checkout terminal or kiosk. The order number is then used to retrieve the order stored in the system. The consumer may view and confirm the order and present payment for the order. The process then proceeds as outlined above with the authorized terminal or portable device being used to place the order with the vendor .

Vendors compensate the merchant for being an order agent in one of two ways. One way the merchant is compensated by a commission being deducted from the transaction amount and provided to the merchant. Another way for merchant compensation is to charge a user a transaction fee and the fee is itemized and added to the receipt. The manner of merchant compensation is determined by the terms of the distribution contract between the merchant and the vendor. The settlement of the transaction and the associated fees is set forth in more detail below. The communication of an order between a merchant and a vendor through the portal is managed by the order manager in system for example.

At an authorized kiosk ATM or self checkout terminal a consumer manipulates a cursor or menu to browse the goods and services of registered vendors presented through the public interface of the portal. Once a user determines what goods or services are to be purchased the user indicates he or she is ready to submit an order. Again the details of the order are provided to a vendor through the registered party interface of the portal so the portal verifies the registration of the device from which the consumer is placing the order. Details of the order are returned to the device so the user knows the transaction amount. The consumer is then prompted for payment. The user may present a credit card a debit card a smart card check or cash. Devices accepting cash may be capable of returning change. A message confirming receipt of payment is sent to the vendor and the vendor returns an order confirmation message. A receipt is then printed for the consumer.

The payment received from a consumer is remitted by the merchant s bank to the portal s bank within a time period defined by the distribution contract. This remittance occurs whether the order is sent from a registered terminal or portable device operated by an authorized user or from a self checkout station kiosk or ATM. The settlement of accounts and processing of the order is described more fully below.

The settlement function prompts the appropriate financial institutions to generate EFT messages and communicate them through the ACH network to settle the transaction in accordance with the distribution contract between a vendor and a merchant. Once an order has been confirmed the order manager stores a copy of the order in an order database. As shown in the transaction manager of the portal sends a message to the vendor s bank to sweep the merchant s bank account at the appropriate interval for the transaction amount. The vendor s bank accumulates transactions until the appropriate time for sweeping the merchant s account. Alternatively the transaction manager may accumulate transactions and deliver a settlement file to a sponsoring bank such as the portal s bank on a periodic basis for example daily. Thus either the portal s bank or the vendor s bank presents the accumulated transactions through an ACH network to the merchant s bank and the funds are swept from the account at the merchant s bank except for the fees or commissions which remain in the merchant s bank as compensation to the merchant. The vendor bank or the sponsoring portal bank then sends a remittance message to the portal to indicate payment has been received from the merchant s bank . The settlement function of the portal then correlates the remittance advice with the transactions used to generate the EFT message to sweep the merchant s account. If the vendor s bank swept the funds from the merchant bank the transaction manager then updates the order to indicate payment has been received by the vendor and that the merchant has received the appropriate fee or commission. The transaction manager then accumulates completed transactions and sends a message to the portal s bank to generate an EFT message to sweep the vendor s bank for the portal s fees to handle completed transactions. A remittance message from the portal s bank is processed to determine whether a vendor has paid the portal s fees. If the portal s fees are not paid the portal may suspend ordering activity for a vendor until the vendor brings the account up to date. Alternatively If the portal bank swept the funds from the merchant bank the transaction manager then accumulates completed transactions and sends a message to the vendor s bank to generate an EFT message to sweep the portal bank for the vendor s price less the merchant s commissions and the portal s fees. Upon the processing of the sweep of the vendor s funds from the portal bank the transaction manager is updated by the portal bank to indicate the vendor has received the funds for a transaction.

The order manager receives order processing status data from a vendor. These data are used to update the order. These data include the date of order review order filling order shipment and order receipt. A consumer may use a registered terminal or portable device to access the order and its status through the order manager. The consumer is able to retrieve information about an order using the identification data provided on the order confirmation receipt. Thus a consumer is able to identify an order s status and the party responsible for its current status. For example if a merchant has not remitted payment for an order to a vendor the status of the order does not indicate it has been paid. Therefore the consumer knows that the merchant is withholding payment and can inquire for the reasons for the withholding from the merchant.

The ratings function enables vendors to provide one another with information regarding the performance of merchants with respect to their contracts. By logging into the portal through the registered party interface a vendor may communicate with the ratings manager to store ratings information in a ratings database. These data are available to the distribution contract manager so they may be delivered to a vendor evaluating business partner candidates. These ratings data may include whether the merchant timely pays for transactions appropriately handles returns or generates an expected sales volume.

The system and method described above address a number of limitations for previously known e commerce systems and methods. For one vendors may now select merchants and enter into distribution agreements without requiring in person visits and direct sales calls. For another cash may be used for payment in an electronic auction system with less risk. If an auction is a registered vendor the auction may be conducted through the public interface of the portal or from the auction holder s website. The winner of the auction may be given an order confirmation receipt through the portal or the auction holder s website. The receipt also displays a deadline for completing the transaction with payment. The winner takes the receipt to a registered terminal or authorized merchant personnel with a portable device before the expiration of a posted deadline and presents payment which can be made in cash. The payment is correlated with the order by the order manager. This transaction then follows the settlement function discussed above and the consumer is able to track the progress of the item bought through the auction.

With the system and method outlined above a convenience store or a network of kiosks could submit application for approval as a sales agent to a telecommunications carrier. Using the process described above the carrier is able to evaluate the store or kiosk operator and negotiate a distribution agreement. Once the merchant has been deployed the merchant s kiosks terminals or portable devices can be used to activate calling cards dispensed or purchased at the kiosk or store. The vendor also receives timely remittance for the call time.

A further advantage of the present system and method may be noted with continued reference to the calling card example. Once the consumer has purchased a calling card an account number is established with the vendor carrier. Although no personal information is associated with the account transaction activity for the account is stored in the transaction data stored in the settlement database . If the consumer regularly increases time for the account with payments at registered terminals or portable devices associated with a merchant a payment history is established for the account that the consumer has with the vendor carrier. A bank may join the portal as a vendor and pay a fee to search the settlement database to locate recurring account activity associated with one or more other vendors. Data ownership issues require that a vendor negotiate permission with another vendor to search the settlement database for transactions associated with the permission giving vendor. The permission negotiation may occur through the portal in a manner similar to the business partner negotiation discussed above or it may be negotiated in an offline manner and then communicated to the portal . The banking vendor may then generate search the transaction data associated with the carrier vendor for example that is stored in the settlement database . The search terms for this type of search may include length of account that the account has existed frequency of payments made to the account average payment amount and the number of different locations from which the payments were made. These search terms for example enable a banking vendor to access the settlement database through the registered party interface and build a buying habit profile from transaction data for account activity and presumably the anonymous consumer behind the account. This profile may be used to determine the creditworthiness of a consumer from transactional activity that has occurred through the portal. The banking vendor may then generate advertising that is transmitted as a text and or voice message to the account number which in this case is a telephone number. The advertising solicits the consumer as a bank customer based on the consumer s payment history for the calling card for example. Such a system and method would enable financial institutions and other vendors to identify and target for advertising cash paying consumers who otherwise go undetected.

A seller typically uses a personal computer to communicate with the auction server and make an item available for bidding. The seller also uses the computer to establish an account for receiving payment from a buyer. The establishment of this account requires the seller to agree to pay a processing fee for the auction payment service handling the payment of an item. When the auction buyer payment support portal disclosed herein is also coupled to the Internet the seller may also register with the portal so buyers may pay for auction items with cash. This capability increases the number of possible purchasers for items available through the auction. The increase in eligible bidders may also strengthen the bidding for items and produce higher prices for auction items. The seller uses information obtained from the auction server to register with the auction buyer payment support portal . This information may include for example a seller s pseudonym such as an EBAY identifier and banking information such as an account number and routing transit number or alternatively an auction payment account number such as a PAYPAL account number. The reader should note that the auction server and the auction buyer payment support portal are independent in the embodiment shown in . That is no contractual or corporate relationship between the portal and the auction server is required for the support of auction buyers with the portal . Such a relationship may exist without departing from the description herein.

The registration of the seller with the portal is supported as noted above with respect to the registration of merchants and vendors. More specifically the seller enters the portal through a public open network interface to register for auction buyer payment support. The data associated with the seller such as the exemplary data discussed above are stored in the seller database . Once the seller has registered for the auction buyer payment support the seller may include notice of the seller s willingness to use the auction buyer payment support service in the description of the goods on the auction server. Provision of the notice in this manner enables the portal and the server to remain independent.

The registered terminal is a merchant registered terminal or kiosk as described above. A buyer goes to a location where a terminal or kiosk is available to tender payment for purchased items as described in more detail below. Merchants are encouraged to accept the tender of payments for auctioned items as a way of increasing traffic in their stores for other goods. Additionally the auction buyer payment support portal operator may contract with the merchants to receive a fee for handling the payment transactions. The process for handling the payment transactions is discussed in more detail below.

An exemplary implementation of the auction buyer payment support portal is shown in . The portal includes an auction site manager a buyer manager and a transaction payment manager . The auction site manager buyer manager and transaction payment manager are comprised of one or more computers each computer having one or more processors and adequate memory to support the functions described herein. The computers are configured with appropriate hardware and programmed instructions to implement the functions required to provide auction buyer payment support.

The buyer manager verifies auction purchase data with the registered terminal . The auction purchase data are obtained from a buyer who has won the bidding for an item that was placed on the auction server by a seller. The buyer obtains auction purchase data from the auction server which typically emails a message to the winning buyer. The buyer manager verifies for example that the seller identified by the auction purchase data is registered with the auction buyer payment support portal. If the seller authenticator of the buyer manager determines the seller is registered the buyer manager generates an auction confirmation signal for the auction site manager which responds as discussed below. The buyer manager also includes a payment receipt manager that generates and sends a payment receipt to a buyer in response to confirmation that funds have been transferred to the seller s account with the auction payment service.

In response to the auction confirmation signal the auction site manager communicates with the auction server to verify auction transaction data. The auction purchase data obtained from the buyer are communicated with the auction server to verify the auction item the winning bid and the seller s pseudonym. The auction server returns an auction transaction data confirmation signal indicating whether the buyer has submitted the winning bid for an item offered by the seller on the auction service and tha the auction purchase data are accurate. The auction server also provides the auction site manager with the shipping method data and the costs associated with the purchase. In response to the auction server indicating that the buyer has submitted the winning bid and that the auction purchase data are accurate a transaction manager of the auction site manager generates a transaction approval form that is sent to the registered merchant terminal.

After reviewing the transaction approval form at the registered terminal the buyer agrees the auction transaction data are accurate and submits payment. The registered terminal returns the approval form and indicates payment has been tendered. In response the transaction payment service manager communicates messages for transferring funds to the seller s account. In one embodiment these messages are electronic funds transfer EFT messages which are used to transfer the funds for paying the seller the auction payment service and the auction site operator. In another embodiment the messages may be electronic messages instructing the transfer of funds from one account to another account outside an automated clearinghouse system such as instructions to transfer funds from one auction service account to another auction service account as described in more detail below.

The transaction payment service manager may also include a merchant payment manager and an auction payment service manager . The merchant payment manager generates and communicates electronic messages for transferring funds such as EFT messages to sweep the registered merchant s account for the funds corresponding to the payment tendered by the buyer and deposit them in a financial account for the portal operator or electronic instructions to transfer funds in a financial system outside an automated clearinghouse system. Likewise the auction payment service manager generates and communicates electronic messages for transferring funds such as EFT messages to sweep funds from the financial account for the portal operator and deposit the funds in an auction service payment account that the portal operator has with the auction payment service. The auction payment service manager may generate electronic instructions to distribute funds through a financial system outside an automated clearinghouse system such as instructions to transfer funds from a portal s auction service account to a seller s account with the auction payment service. Data from the auction payment service is returned to the auction payment support portal and the payment receipt manager of the buyer manager generates a payment receipt for communication with the buyer.

An exemplary process that may be implemented by the exemplary portal system described above is now described with reference to . After a seller has enrolled with the auction server for selling an item through an on line auction managed by the auction server the seller may also enroll with the auction payment support portal block . The seller s enrollment data which identifies the item being auctioned and the seller s pseudonym are stored in the seller database . The buyer may learn about the option of buying with cash through the portal from the seller s notice on the auction server and through information available from the portal site through the public interface block .

A winning buyer may use information obtained from the auction server regarding the winning bid to submit cash payment for a purchased item. The buyer may go to a registered merchant terminal at a retail location or to a registered kiosk. Entering the identifying data obtained from the buyer into the registered terminal the terminal generates a payment inquiry message that is sent to the auction payment support portal for processing by the buyer manager block . After the seller authenticator verifies the seller is registered with the portal the auction site manager communicates with the auction server to verify the winning bid and buyer s pseudonym for the auction item. Upon verification of the buyer submitted data the auction site manager site also queries the auction server for the shipping method and costs for the transaction. The transaction manager of the auction site manager generates a transaction approval form with the data and sends the form to the registered terminal block . The buyer then confirms the transaction data in the form block . The confirmed transaction approval form is returned to the portal and the buyer manager generates a payment form block . The payment form identifies the transaction total which includes the purchase price of the item the shipping and other associated costs and a convenience fee for the portal operator. After the buyer tenders funds to the merchant to pay for the transaction the merchant takes the funds for deposit in the merchant s financial account. The merchant then approves the payment form and returns it to the portal. The transaction manager of the auction site manager generates an open transaction record to track payment to the seller block .

The transaction payment manager of the portal processes an open transaction record to move funds for the transaction. The merchant payment manager of the transaction payment manager generates and communicates electronic messages for funds distribution which in the example being discussed are EFT messages for sweeping the merchant s financial account of the funds received from buyers. These EFT messages may be generated and communicated through an automated clearinghouse on a periodic basis. By agreement with the registered merchant the EFT messages may leave a portion of the convenience fee in the merchant s financial account for operating as a payment station. The funds swept from the merchant s account are deposited in the portal operator s financial account. The merchant payment manager also generates electronic messages for transferring funds to an auction payment service account. In the scenario depicted in the figure the messages are electronic messages that deposit funds in an auction account for the portal operator that is maintained with the auction payment service. These electronic messages also include instructions to push payment from the portal operator s auction account to the seller s auction account. Push payment refers to the messages that initiate and effect payment between parties to complete a transaction.

In response to an open transaction record being generated the auction payment service manager generates instructions that are sent to the auction payment service. These instructions identify auction transactions and the amounts to be paid. The funds to cover the item and its shipping costs are transferred from the portal operator s auction payment service account to the seller s account with the auction payment service block . After these transfers the payment receipt manager receives confirmation that the instructions have been executed. The payment receipt manager generates a payment receipt message that is returned to the registered terminal block . The payment receipt message may be printed by the terminal and given to the buyer as evidence of the payment in the event that the seller does not send the auctioned item as promised block . The auction payment service also transfers funds to the auction payment service s financial account for its service fee and transfers funds to the auction operator s financial account for its service fee.

After receipt of the confirmation that the payment instructions have been executed the payment receipt manager generates and sends a payment notification message to the seller s email address using an email manager although other communication methods may be used block . The seller may then verify that the seller s account with the auction payment service has been credited. The seller then communicates using the computer to update the auction server that payment for the auctioned item has been received. The seller then ships the item to the buyer.

In one embodiment of the auction payment support portal the auction server is an eBay server and the auction payment service server is a PAYPAL server. The portal operator maintains a PAYPAL account with the PAYPAL payment service for the payment of funds to seller accounts. The EBAY server and the auction payment service server have an interface known as EBAY Web Services Application Programming Interface. The communication protocol for auction transaction messages submitting payment instructions and receiving payment confirmation messages is defined for this embodiment by the specification for this interface that is available from EBAY . The portal uses this protocol and the defined message structures particularly those using the MASSPAY method to implement an auction payment support for preserving the security of a buyer s personal and financial information. Other communication protocols methods and message structures may be used for other auction servers.

From the foregoing the reader may discern that the auction payment support portal enables a buyer to be identified only by the pseudonym that the buyer used to win the auction. The buyer was not required to expose personal or financial information in order to make the purchase as payment was tendered in cash at a registered terminal. Of course the registered terminal may also be operated to accept credit debit or smart card payment should the buyer want to use those methods. The buyer s anonymity is preserved at the expense of the small convenience fee charged by the portal operator.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that numerous modifications can be made to the specific implementations described above. Therefore the following claims are not to be limited to the specific embodiments illustrated and described above. The claims as originally presented and as they may be amended encompass variations alternatives modifications improvements equivalents and substantial equivalents of the embodiments and teachings disclosed herein including those that are presently unforeseen or unappreciated and that for example may arise from applicants patentees and others.

