---

title: Apparatuses, methods and systems for a composite multimedia content generator
abstract: The disclosure details the implementation of apparatuses, methods, and systems for a Composite Content Generator. The disclosure teaches a Composite Content Generator, which provides a straightforward, unified, and transparent interface that presents users with the ability to customize publication purchases. Buyers of content may desire to customize their purchases in order to acquire certain sections of a work (e.g., select chapters from a travel book, select recipes from a cook book, choose certain subjects out of reference or medical journals, and specific sections of a periodical). In one embodiment, the Composite Content Generator allows buyers to view, select, and purchase portions of various works (e.g., such as books, periodicals, reference materials, and/or the like) and receive fulfillment of their purchase as a customized and modular composite publication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08751916&OS=08751916&RS=08751916
owner: 
number: 08751916
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20060728
---
This application is a National Stage Entry entitled to and hereby claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 365 and 371 corresponding to PCT Application No. PCT US2006 029678 titled APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR A COMPOSITE MULTIMEDIA CONTENT GENERATOR filed Jul. 28 2006 which in turn claimed priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 595 724 filed Jul. 29 2005 all of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention is directed generally to apparatuses methods and systems of publishing and more particularly to apparatuses methods and systems for aggregating and generating composite content in multiple mediums.

Traditionally people read in paper format. This includes books newspapers magazines and other formats. Recently internet media and on screen viewing has become popular as well. Currently those that wish to buy publications books and periodicals go to traditional outlets such as book stores and newsstands to make purchases of such items. Some purchase books from the World Wide Web from retailers like Amazon.com. These outlets allow customers to browse for such content and make purchases of the content.

The disclosure details the implementation of apparatuses methods and systems for a Composite Content Generator. In many circumstances buyers of content may want to customize their purchases in order to acquire certain sections of a work e.g. select chapters from a travel book select recipes from a cook book choose certain subjects out of reference or medical journals and or specific sections of a periodical . Traditional outlets do not allow for the purchasing of partial works. This disclosure details various mechanisms for offering buyers of these books publications and periodicals the ability to select the specific portions they wish to purchase and order only those portions. In addition the disclosure details how the Composite Content Generator allows for fulfillment and delivery of the customized modular composite order. In one embodiment the Composite Content Generator allows one to order a compilation of specific portions of various works and combine those portions into one composite publication book or periodical.

The leading number of each reference number within the drawings indicates the figure in which that reference number is introduced and or detailed. As such a detailed discussion of reference number would be found and or introduced in . Reference number is introduced in etc.

In one embodiment the Composite Content Generator allows one to compile specific orders from various works and combine the order into one publication book or periodical. For example a buyer seeking advice for travel tips for various cities throughout Europe can select the dinning and lodging sections for Paris from Rick Steve s the sightseeing section of Avignon from Let s Go Europe the dining section of Nice from Frommers and the Museum section of Florence from Fodors. Another example would be the compilation of research or subject matter expertise for personal or professional research. For example a professor may place an order for a varied composite of chosen chapters from various textbooks that best describe a subject along with some periodicals to compliment the subject. In one embodiment this order would then be fulfilled and delivered to the customer in one finished book publication or periodical.

Upon making a content type selection the Composite Content Generator will retrieve a selector profile for that content type. The selector profile allows a user to specify various attributes and or otherwise conduct searches for content that is a member of the content type that they selected. Thus if the user selected a content type of Travel Books a selector profile might include selectors that allow a user to specify a geographic region. For example in one can see a web browser where a geography selector has been retrieved and provided to a user wherein the user may then select a geographical region by country state city postal code and or the like. The selector profile may be loaded from a Composite Content Generator database. In one embodiment the selector profile is a web page. In another embodiment the selector profile is an XML description that links data sources and may be employed by an information server and or database system to generate a web page. For example the following is an XML description for a selector profile for Travel Books that coincides with options in and 

It should be noted that the above example shows a snapshot that has been augmented by user selections in . In one embodiment the selector is generated by reading a selector template for the content type and is further modified by the specifics of matching content offerings. For example an initial selector for Travel Book content type might have the following XML description 

As can be seen above the initial template may be used to query the Composite Content Generator database for lists of options for each XML field entry. For example the tag may have a country field table link that points to the Composite Content Generator table having a list of countries e.g. a templates table . By searching for values matching that country tag a list of countries will be returned. In one embodiment searches may be generated by using just the XML tags or the XML tags with listed values as the basis of SQL select requests on the target Composite Content Generator database tables. The results of the search may then be used by the Composite Content Generator user interface to populate its popup list options for example see . For example this returned list may be used to modify the selector as follows 

Similarly other links to the database may be used to populate the selector with specific options for the user to narrow their content selectors. As users make selections of countries or cities searches on those tags or selections may ensue to modify their options. Thus if a user selects a city book codes for that city will be returned and be provided to the user. In turn as book codes are returned and or selected the Composite Content Generator may search those book codes to identify if there are chapters maps ads coupons or other content sub types that are available for individual purchase and or selection for that book code. Thus if a content type or a specific content type selection e.g. a selected book has no coupons or ads in it no option for selecting ads or coupons will be provided via the user interface via the selector. In this way users will be presented with only as much information as meets their specified interests.

It should be noted that implementations other than XML for marking selections and designating selectors may be employed. For example tab and or character delineated lists structured lists descriptive headers Flash based user interfaces a series of HTML web form pages with table links text and or binary versions of such data structures and or the like may be employed.

Moving back to after a type of content is selected by the user a web page with the appropriate categories and or selectors is loaded . This may be achieved by querying the Composite Content Generator database for the appropriate selector for the selected content type. For example once a content type is selected e.g. see or a selected tag e.g. Academic Text Audio Book Coupon Book Magazines Newspaper Reference Book Travel Books RSS feed etc. may be used as a basis to look up selector templates from a Composite Content Generator database from a template table. Upon retrieving the appropriate selector and providing a user interface for display to the user e.g. a web page a web page generated from the specifications and data links specified in the selectors and or the like the user may then specify categories and other filters e.g. see . These tags associated with the user s selected categories and or filters are then used to query the Composite Content Generator which will then return and populate the display with content offerings from which the user may make selections e.g. see . In one embodiment optionally the listings of content offerings may include the ability to preview e.g. see the content offerings . In some embodiments the previews may include portions of the content teasers summary information e.g. number of pages minutes of video format options price publisher and or the like and or the like. Regardless the users may identify the content they are interested in e.g. optionally after previewing the content offerings by providing indication of interest to the portions of the content offerings of interest. That is for each content offering the Composite Content Generator may use the selector to obtain the available portions of the content that are available individually. For example in Travel Book has four available chapters from which the user may make selections and the user has employed a cursor to select the Chapter 2 The Wine Region portion of the book. As such in one embodiment by clicking on the content offering listings e.g. see that listing s sub parts e.g. the chapters may be expanded so the user may both browse and or make selections of the sub parts. The user may continue to make as many selections as they like and moreover they may move back to make composite works by iterating through the selection . In another example a user may decide to use information segments from information service providers like Factiva Yahoo News and or the like in such an embodiment users may select various RSS feed links and or story segments that will be used to comprise the composite work. In one embodiment users may make inter type composite works by iterating back to the selection of types of content . As the user iterates the Composite Content Generator keeps track of all user selections. In one embodiment the user selections are maintained in a cookie on the user s computer. In an alternative embodiment the user selections are sent to the Composite Content Generator e.g. via http s post commands and saved in a session in the Composite Content Generator.

When the user does not desire any more content items and or sub items the user may rearrange all the selections into an order of their liking . In one embodiment a summary list of all user sub item selections is presented and a user may select items in that list and move items up and down the list to an order of their liking e.g. See .

Upon rearranging the selected content portions into a desired arrangement the user may be presented with style template and print options . In one embodiment pop up selections may be employed for the user to choose various styles. In another embodiment a template list of including various style previous e.g. Travel journal style of me be used from various applications e.g. Apple s Pages . The numerous templates may be saved in the Composite Content Generator database. In one embodiment numerous style templates are stored for each type of output option. Thus if the output target is a text book a number of desktop layout templates may be use to accept the text and image content portions wherein each portion would be given its own section separator in the text template. For example in one embodiment Adobe InDesign Framemaker Pagemaker Quark TeX and or the like templates may be designed by artists and be used as containers for the selected content portions. Upon populating the templates the resulting files may be saved and made available for download and or rastered e.g. output to PDF eBook hard copy and or the like formats . Similarly video templates may be used to generate DVDs by using templates from programs like Apple s iDVD e.g. see of DVD studio and or the like whereby selected content portions become DVD chapters. In an alternative embodiment the selected video portions may be appended one after the other and output into a single video file format e.g. Windows Media Format MPEG 4 and or the like . The user may also be presented with a screen to select output options. In one embodiment a pop up menu may allow a user to select the options for example such as download eBook PDF Word text etc. hard copy paper 6 8 8 11 etc. CD audio MP3 AAC etc. DVD video MPEG 4 etc. and or the like and or the like. In one embodiment the user is presented with a screen that allows them to select the template and or output options from a series of preview icons e.g. see . In another embodiment the selected content portions may be funneled into external applications e.g. such as Pages and iDVD via Apple scripts which may then be further saved as PDF format files.

Upon selecting a style template and or output options the user may select ads to be included in their customized composite work . It should be noted that although ads are mentioned in this optional embodiment that in an alternative embodiment coupons may be employed as well. Some types of content may include advertisements. For example travel books may include numerous ads and or coupons that are related to the context and areas covered by the book. Another example may include newspapers or magazine types of content where ads and or coupons are placed. As such in one embodiment a user may be provided with the ability to select the types of ads and or coupons that they would find useful. For example a user may specify that they are only interested in restaurant and hotel advertisements for the selected cities in a travel book. In one embodiment a selector is employed to allow users to make category and filter selections for the types of ads for which they have an interest. In an alternative embodiment a user may actually browse various ad genres product categories and or companies for which ads will be supplied. In another embodiment ads are selected by the Composite Content Generator and not by the user based on context e.g. such as a geographical area for a travel book from ads supplied by advertisers e.g. for a given region such ads being stored in a Composite Content Generator database in such a manner advertisers are able to target users with ads. Upon making the ad selections the tags from the user selections may be used as a basis for searching the Composite Content Generator database s ad table for matching ads. Upon identifying matching ads those ads may optionally be provided for display to the user and the user may further be allowed to make selections of ads for inclusion in their composite content. Alternatively ads may be automatically selected and placed within the composite work automatically based on the context of the composite work. In yet another embodiment a user may pay extra to not include any ads and or coupons in their composite work. Advertisers pay to have their ads made available for inclusion of composite works via the Composite Content Generator s database.

Upon selection of a template and output option or optionally upon selection of ads for inclusion the Composite Content Generator may then determine apportionment for selected sub portions for desired content . In one embodiment a user is charged a prorated portion of the total cost of a desired content item. For example where a user selects one chapter out of a total of 10 chapters in a first book that costs 10 and two chapters out of 10 in a book that costs 20 the user would be charged 1 10the cost of the first book 1 and 2 10the cost of the second book 4 for a total charge of 5. In an alternative embodiment each work may have a profile where different sub portions of the work have specific charges and or specific apportionments. For example a particular book may have a first chapter that is deemed to be 50 the value of the entire work. In another example a publisher may wish to charge a flat fee e.g. 5 for each sub portion of a work even though the sum of the sub portions would add up to more than the cost of the entire work. In yet another example a publisher may wish to charge less for the sub portions. Numerous volume discounts and other pricing variations are contemplated as being within the scope of the Composite Content Generator.

Upon determining apportionment for selected sub portions of desired works the Composite Content Generator may provide a final charge for which the user may provide payment information. In one embodiment the user may enter credit card information from the user into a web form. Upon obtaining the credit card information and charging the card the Composite Content Generator may then retrieve the user selected sub portions of desired works and insert those portions into any selected templates .

In one embodiment the Composite Content Generator searches its content database table for matching sub portions and retrieves those portions. The various content types may be digitized and or otherwise collected and stored in the content database. In one embodiment content is collected from the publishers and tagged with metadata. As such the content of a book may be broken up into its various section components and saved into the fields of the Composite Content Generator content database table. In one embodiment the retrieved sub portions may then be placed into the retrieved templates via an Application Programming Interface API as supplied by the application supporting the template. In an alternative embodiment a script may be used to copy retrieved content sub portions and paste them into selected templates. In one embodiment such data may be fed via database adapters.

Upon compositing the selected content sub portions the Composite Content Generator then determines the desired output for the composite work based on the users output option selection . Depending on the content type and the desired output the generation of the final output may vary. For example when books magazines newsprint and or like media types are the content basis output options may include downloads and or hardcopy options however the download options might be limited to eBook and or PDF output formats and hardcopy output options may be limited to physical print outs. Alternatively if the content basis type were videos then download options may include Windows Media Video formats while physical output may be limited to DVD formats. Upon generation of the desired output format the output is provided for delivery . For example if the desired output was a download then the file would be provided for download by providing a user with a link that would prompt the Composite Content Generator to initiate an FTP and or http transfer of the composited file from the Composite Content Generator to the user s computer. Alternatively if a physical composited work has been generated e.g. a print out that has been bound a CD a DVD and or the like that physical composited work may be then shipped to a user s address for personal delivery made available at a local Kinkos and or the like . For example a generated version of the composited work may be emailed and or otherwise transferred to a Kinkos local to the user where it may be printed out or saved to an optical medium and made available for pick up by the user.

In another embodiment of the coupon component each coupon book may be sold for a geographic region based on the popular restaurants and other attractions in the area. If you wanted to have one of these books for yourself perhaps as a fundraiser idea for your small organization you could have your name embossed on the cover of the book. This embodiment allows a small group such as a baseball team scout organization or other to not only customize the cover of the book but to also decide which businesses will be represented and which coupons will appear inside the book. In effect customers may create their own custom coupon book from cover to cover by 

The coupon component allows a potential customer to pay for and download a fundraiser kit. In one embodiment this kit is partly paper based and partly Internet based. The paper component is where users collect the names email addresses and signatures of business owners that wish to participate in the coupon book program which they are producing. The electronic component will enable them to enter the merchant names and then send the merchant via email a URL at which the merchant will be able to custom create a coupon. Each merchant may then create their own coupon in our application which will enable them to create three specific components. First they will put in the business name and address. Next they will put in the business logo or other graphic. And finally they will put in the offer such as 20 off 2 for 1 etc. When the merchant has finished certain coupon they may press a Done indicator e.g. a button and will be entered into the list of done coupons. After a customer may go into an online application and create their coupon book. They will take all of the done coupons and put them into order groups etc. They will design their cover in a similar fashion to that which the merchants did when they created the coupons. Then the user may select the output format the number of books and to buy them. Typically this will mean they select whether or not they want their coupon books to have a plastic or paper cover a particular list price on the cover and if they want to add any template standard content. Next they will find the price per 20 50 100 units or more . The users will then be able to put this order into a shopping cart place and pay for the order. Thereafter the users will have coupon books for sale at a much higher price so they may profit.

The modular book may be comprised of a cover having an inner binding that includes a Velcro surface affixed to the inside of the cover with an adhesive. In one embodiment strips of VELCRO e.g. Industrial Strength with Heavy Duty Adhesive strips that come in 1.2 meter lengths may be cut to the same height as the cover and affixed to the inner binding of the cover . Similarly printed and bound copies of the partial content selections may each have a complementing Velcro strip affixed to its outer binding . As such the Velcro bound selections may then be affixed inside the cover . Such an embodiment allows a user to only put in those partial content selections that are of interest at a given time. For example if a user generates an academic composite work the student need only affix the chapters required for a given day s lesson in the modular Velcro binding and thereby reduce the amount that the student needs to carry to class.

In another embodiment the modular book is designed to make it easier to separate the different sections of a personalized travel book. This unique structural design will also afford the traveler more flexibility in creating and only keeping the relevant sections of a travel book. This embodiment affords travel book manufacturers travel agencies and self directed travel planners a cost effective solution to providing specialized and specific guides that match the requirements of the customer.

Typically users which may be people and or other systems engage information technology systems e.g. commonly computers to facilitate information processing. In turn computers employ processors to process information such processors are often referred to as central processing units CPU . A common form of processor is referred to as a microprocessor. CPUs use communicative signals to enable various operations. Such communicative signals may be stored and or transmitted in batches as program and or data components facilitate desired operations. These stored instruction code signals may engage the CPU circuit components to perform desired operations. A common type of program is a computer operating system which commonly is executed by CPU on a computer the operating system enables and facilitates users to access and operate computer information technology and resources. Common resources employed in information technology systems include input and output mechanisms through which data may pass into and out of a computer memory storage into which data may be saved and processors by which information may be processed. Often information technology systems are used to collect data for later retrieval analysis and manipulation commonly which is facilitated through a database program. Information technology systems provide interfaces that allow users to access and operate various system components.

In one embodiment the Composite Content Generator system controller may be connected to and or communicate with entities such as but not limited to one or more users from user input devices peripheral devices a cryptographic processor device and or a communications network .

Networks are commonly thought to comprise the interconnection and interoperation of clients servers and intermediary nodes in a graph topology. It should be noted that the term server as used throughout this disclosure refers generally to a computer other device program or combination thereof that processes and responds to the requests of remote users across a communications network. Servers serve their information to requesting clients. The term client as used herein refers generally to a computer other device program or combination thereof that is capable of processing and making requests and obtaining and processing any responses from servers across a communications network. A computer other device program or combination thereof that facilitates processes information and requests and or furthers the passage of information from a source user to a destination user is commonly referred to as a node. Networks are generally thought to facilitate the transfer of information from source points to destinations. A node specifically tasked with furthering the passage of information from a source to a destination is commonly called a router. There are many forms of networks such as Local Area Networks LANs Pico networks Wide Area Networks WANs Wireless Networks WLANs etc. For example the Internet is generally accepted as being an interconnection of a multitude of networks whereby remote clients and servers may access and interoperate with one another.

The Composite Content Generator system controller may be based on common computer systems that may comprise but are not limited to components such as a computer systemization connected to memory .

A computer systemization may comprise a clock central processing unit CPU a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM and or an interface bus and most frequently although not necessarily are all interconnected and or communicating through a system bus . Optionally the computer systemization may be connected to an internal power source . Optionally a cryptographic processor may be connected to the system bus. The system clock typically has a crystal oscillator and provides a base signal. The clock is typically coupled to the system bus and various clock multipliers that will increase or decrease the base operating frequency for other components interconnected in the computer systemization. The clock and various components in a computer systemization drive signals embodying information throughout the system. Such transmission and reception of signals embodying information throughout a computer systemization may be commonly referred to as communications. These communicative signals may further be transmitted received and the cause of return and or reply signal communications beyond the instant computer systemization to communications networks input devices other computer systemizations peripheral devices and or the like. Of course any of the above components may be connected directly to one another connected to the CPU and or organized in numerous variations employed as exemplified by various computer systems.

The CPU comprises at least one high speed data processor adequate to execute program components for executing user and or system generated requests. The CPU may be a microprocessor such as AMD s Athlon Duron and or Opteron IBM and or Motorola s PowerPC IBM s and Sony s Cell processor Intel s Celeron Itanium Pentium Xeon and or XScale and or the like processor s . The CPU interacts with memory through signal passing through conductive conduits to execute stored signal program code according to conventional data processing techniques. Such signal passing facilitates communication within the Composite Content Generator system controller and beyond through various interfaces. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed parallel mainframe and or super computer architectures may similarly be employed. Alternatively should deployment requirements dictate greater portability smaller Personal Digital Assistants PDAs may be employed.

The power source may be of any standard form for powering small electronic circuit board devices such as the following power cells alkaline lithium hydride lithium ion lithium polymer nickel cadmium solar cells and or the like. Other types of AC or DC power sources may be used as well. In the case of solar cells in one embodiment the case provides an aperture through which the solar cell may capture photonic energy. The power cell is connected to at least one of the interconnected subsequent components of the Composite Content Generator system thereby providing an electric current to all subsequent components. In one example the power source is connected to the system bus component . In an alternative embodiment an outside power source is provided through a connection across the I O interface. For example a USB and or IEEE 1394 connection carries both data and power across the connection and is therefore a suitable source of power.

Interface bus ses may accept connect and or communicate to a number of interface adapters conventionally although not necessarily in the form of adapter cards such as but not limited to input output interfaces I O storage interfaces network interfaces and or the like. Optionally cryptographic processor interfaces similarly may be connected to the interface bus. The interface bus provides for the communications of interface adapters with one another as well as with other components of the computer systemization. Interface adapters are adapted for a compatible interface bus. Interface adapters conventionally connect to the interface bus via a slot architecture. Conventional slot architectures may be employed such as but not limited to Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and or the like.

Storage interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a number of storage devices such as but not limited to storage devices removable disc devices and or the like. Storage interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to Ultra Serial Advanced Technology Attachment Packet Interface Ultra Serial ATA PI Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics E IDE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 fiber channel Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI Universal Serial Bus USB and or the like.

Network interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a communications network . Through a communications network the Composite Content Generator system controller is accessible through remote clients e.g. computers with web browsers by users . Network interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to direct connect Ethernet thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T and or the like Token Ring wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11a x and or the like. A communications network may be any one and or the combination of the following a direct interconnection the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a secured custom connection a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network e.g. employing protocols such as but not limited to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP I mode and or the like and or the like. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types . For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and or unicast networks.

Input Output interfaces I O may accept communicate and or connect to user input devices peripheral devices cryptographic processor devices and or the like. I O may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to Apple Desktop Bus ADB Apple Desktop Connector ADC audio analog digital monaural RCA stereo and or the like IEEE 1394a b infrared joystick keyboard midi optical PC AT PS 2 parallel radio serial USB video interface BNC coaxial composite digital Digital Visual Interface DVI RCA RF antennae S Video VGA and or the like wireless and or the like. A common output device is a television set which accepts signals from a video interface. Also a video display which typically comprises a Cathode Ray Tube CRT or Liquid Crystal Display LCD based monitor with an interface e.g. DVI circuitry and cable that accepts signals from a video interface may be used. The video interface composites information generated by a computer systemization and generates video signals based on the composited information in a video memory frame. Typically the video interface provides the composited video information through a video connection interface that accepts a video display interface e.g. an RCA composite video connector accepting an RCA composite video cable a DVI connector accepting a DVI display cable etc. .

User input devices may be card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards mouse mice remote controls retina readers trackballs trackpads and or the like.

Peripheral devices may be connected and or communicate to I O and or other facilities of the like such as network interfaces storage interfaces and or the like. Peripheral devices may be audio devices cameras dongles e.g. for copy protection ensuring secure transactions with a digital signature and or the like external processors for added functionality goggles microphones monitors network interfaces printers scanners storage devices video devices video sources visors and or the like.

It should be noted that although user input devices and peripheral devices may be employed the Composite Content Generator system controller may be embodied as an embedded dedicated and or monitor less i.e. headless device wherein access would be provided over a network interface connection.

Cryptographic units such as but not limited to microcontrollers processors interfaces and or devices may be attached and or communicate with the Composite Content Generator system controller. A MC68HC16 microcontroller commonly manufactured by Motorola Inc. may be used for and or within cryptographic units. Equivalent microcontrollers and or processors may also be used. The MC68HC16 microcontroller utilizes a 16 bit multiply and accumulate instruction in the 16 MHz configuration and requires less than one second to perform a 512 bit RSA private key operation. Cryptographic units support the authentication of communications from interacting agents as well as allowing for anonymous transactions. Cryptographic units may also be configured as part of CPU. Other commercially available specialized cryptographic processors include VLSI Technology s 33 MHz 6868 or Semaphore Communications 40 MHz Roadrunner .

Generally any mechanization and or embodiment allowing a processor to affect the storage and or retrieval of information is regarded as memory . However memory is a fungible technology and resource thus any number of memory embodiments may be employed in lieu of or in concert with one another. It is to be understood that the Composite Content Generator system controller and or a computer systemization may employ various forms of memory . For example a computer systemization may be configured wherein the functionality of on chip CPU memory e.g. registers RAM ROM and any other storage devices are provided by a paper punch tape or paper punch card mechanism of course such an embodiment would result in an extremely slow rate of operation. In a typical configuration memory will include ROM RAM and a storage device . A storage device may be any conventional computer system storage. Storage devices may include a drum a fixed and or removable magnetic disk drive a magneto optical drive an optical drive i.e. CD ROM RAM Recordable R ReWritable RW DVD R RW etc. an array of devices e.g. Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID and or other devices of the like. Thus a computer systemization generally requires and makes use of memory.

The memory may contain a collection of program and or database components and or data such as but not limited to operating system component s operating system information server component s information server user interface component s user interface Web browser component s Web browser database s mail server component s mail client component s cryptographic server component s cryptographic server the Composite Content Generator system component s and or the like i.e. collectively a component collection . These components may be stored and accessed from the storage devices and or from storage devices accessible through an interface bus. Although non conventional program components such as those in the component collection typically are stored in a local storage device they may also be loaded and or stored in memory such as peripheral devices RAM remote storage facilities through a communications network ROM various forms of memory and or the like.

The operating system component is an executable program component facilitating the operation of the Composite Content Generator system controller. Typically the operating system facilitates access of I O network interfaces peripheral devices storage devices and or the like. The operating system may be a highly fault tolerant scalable and secure system such as Apple Macintosh OS X Server AT T Plan 9 Be OS Linux Unix and or the like operating systems. However more limited and or less secure operating systems also may be employed such as Apple Macintosh QS Microsoft DOS Microsoft Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT Vista XP Server Palm OS and or the like. An operating system may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or the like. Most frequently the operating system communicates with other program components user interfaces and or the like. For example the operating system may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. The operating system once executed by the CPU may enable the interaction with communications networks data I O peripheral devices program components memory user input devices and or the like. The operating system may provide communications protocols that allow the Composite Content Generator system controller to communicate with other entities through a communications network . Various communication protocols may be used by the Composite Content Generator system controller as a subcarrier transport mechanism for interaction such as but not limited to multicast TCP IP UDP unicast and or the like.

An information server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The information server may be a conventional Internet information server such as but not limited to Apache Software Foundation s Apache Microsoft s Internet Information Server and or the. The information server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as Active Server Page ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C Common Gateway Interface CGI scripts Java JavaScript Practical Extraction Report Language PERL Python WebObjects and or the like. The information server may support secure communications protocols such as but not limited to File Transfer Protocol FTP HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS Secure Socket Layer SSL and or the like. The information server provides results in the form of Web pages to Web browsers and allows for the manipulated generation of the Web pages through interaction with other program components. After a Domain Name System DNS resolution portion of an HTTP request is resolved to a particular information server the information server resolves requests for information at specified locations on the Composite Content Generator system controller based on the remainder of the HTTP request. For example a request such as http 123.124.125.126 myInformation.html might have the IP portion of the request 123.124.125.126 resolved by a DNS server to an information server at that IP address that information server might in turn further parse the http request for the myInformation.html portion of the request and resolve it to a location in memory containing the information myInformation.html. Additionally other information serving protocols may be employed across various ports e.g. FTP communications across port and or the like. An information server may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the information server communicates with the Composite Content Generator system database operating systems other program components user interfaces Web browsers and or the like.

Access to the Composite Content Generator system database may be achieved through a number of database bridge mechanisms such as through scripting languages as enumerated below e.g. CGI and through inter application communication channels as enumerated below e.g. CORBA WebObjects etc. . Any data requests through a Web browser are parsed through the bridge mechanism into appropriate grammars as required by the Composite Content Generator system. In one embodiment the information server would provide a Web form accessible by a Web browser. Entries made into supplied fields in the Web form are tagged as having been entered into the particular fields and parsed as such. The entered terms are then passed along with the field tags which act to instruct the parser to generate queries directed to appropriate tables and or fields. In one embodiment the parser may generate queries in standard SQL by instantiating a search string with the proper join select commands based on the tagged text entries wherein the resulting command is provided over the bridge mechanism to the Composite Content Generator system as a query. Upon generating query results from the query the results are passed over the bridge mechanism and may be parsed for formatting and generation of a new results Web page by the bridge mechanism. Such a new results Web page is then provided to the information server which may supply it to the requesting Web browser.

Also an information server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The function of computer interfaces in some respects is similar to automobile operation interfaces. Automobile operation interface elements such as steering wheels gearshifts and speedometers facilitate the access operation and display of automobile resources functionality and status. Computer interaction interface elements such as check boxes cursors menus scrollers and windows collectively and commonly referred to as widgets similarly facilitate the access operation and display of data and computer hardware and operating system resources functionality and status. Operation interfaces are commonly called user interfaces. Graphical user interfaces GUIs such as the Apple Macintosh Operating System s Aqua Microsoft s Windows XP or Unix s X Windows provide a baseline and means of accessing and displaying information graphically to users.

A user interface component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The user interface may be a conventional graphic user interface as provided by with and or atop operating systems and or operating environments such as Apple Macintosh OS e.g. Aqua GNUSTEP Microsoft Windows NT XP Unix X Windows KDE Gnome and or the like mythTV and or the like. The user interface may allow for the display execution interaction manipulation and or operation of program components and or system facilities through textual and or graphical facilities. The user interface provides a facility through which users may affect interact and or operate a computer system. A user interface may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the user interface communicates with operating systems other program components and or the like. The user interface may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

A Web browser component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The Web browser may be a conventional hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator. Secure Web browsing may be supplied with 128 bit or greater encryption by way of HTTPS SSL and or the like. Some Web browsers allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as Java JavaScript ActiveX and or the like. Web browsers and like information access tools may be integrated into PDAs cellular telephones and or other mobile devices. A Web browser may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the Web browser communicates with information servers operating systems integrated program components e.g. plug ins and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. Of course in place of a Web browser and information server a combined application may be developed to perform similar functions of both. The combined application would similarly affect the obtaining and the provision of information to users user agents and or the like from the Composite Content Generator system enabled nodes. The combined application may be nugatory on systems employing standard Web browsers.

A mail server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail server may be a conventional Internet mail server such as but not limited to sendmail Microsoft Exchange and or the. The mail server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL pipes Python WebObjects and or the like. The mail server may support communications protocols such as but not limited to Internet message access protocol IMAP Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP3 simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and or the like. The mail server can route forward and process incoming and outgoing mail messages that have been sent relayed and or otherwise traversing through and or to the Composite Content Generator system.

Access to the Composite Content Generator system mail may be achieved through a number of APIs offered by the individual Web server components and or the operating system.

Also a mail server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses.

A mail client component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail client may be a conventional mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Outlook Express Mozilla Thunderbird and or the like. Mail clients may support a number of transfer protocols such as IMAP Microsoft Exchange POP3 SMTP and or the like. A mail client may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the mail client communicates with mail servers operating systems other mail clients and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses. Generally the mail client provides a facility to compose and transmit electronic mail messages.

A cryptographic server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU cryptographic processor cryptographic processor interface cryptographic processor device and or the like. Cryptographic processor interfaces will allow for expedition of encryption and or decryption requests by the cryptographic component however the cryptographic component alternatively may run on a conventional CPU. The cryptographic component allows for the encryption and or decryption of provided data. The cryptographic component allows for both symmetric and asymmetric e.g. Pretty Good Protection PGP encryption and or decryption. The cryptographic component may employ cryptographic techniques such as but not limited to digital certificates e.g. X.509 authentication framework digital signatures dual signatures enveloping password access protection public key management and or the like. The cryptographic component will facilitate numerous encryption and or decryption security protocols such as but not limited to checksum Data Encryption Standard DES Elliptical Curve Encryption ECC International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA Message Digest 5 MD5 which is a one way hash function passwords Rivest Cipher RC5 Rijndael RSA which is an Internet encryption and authentication system that uses an algorithm developed in 1977 by Ron Rivest Adi Shamir and Leonard Adleman Secure Hash Algorithm SHA Secure Socket Layer SSL Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS and or the like. Employing such encryption security protocols the Composite Content Generator system may encrypt all incoming and or outgoing communications and may serve as node within a virtual private network VPN with a wider communications network. The cryptographic component facilitates the process of security authorization whereby access to a resource is inhibited by a security protocol wherein the cryptographic component effects authorized access to the secured resource. In addition the cryptographic component may provide unique identifiers of content e.g. employing and MD5 hash to obtain a unique signature for an digital audio file. A cryptographic component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. The cryptographic component supports encryption schemes allowing for the secure transmission of information across a communications network to enable the Composite Content Generator system component to engage in secure transactions if so desired. The cryptographic component facilitates the secure accessing of resources on the Composite Content Generator system and facilitates the access of secured resources on remote systems i.e. it may act as a client and or server of secured resources. Most frequently the cryptographic component communicates with information servers operating systems other program components and or the like. The cryptographic component may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The Composite Content Generator database component may be embodied in a database and its stored data. The database is a stored program component which is executed by the CPU the stored program component portion configuring the CPU to process the stored data. The database may be a conventional fault tolerant relational scalable secure database such as Oracle or Sybase. Relational databases are an extension of a flat file. Relational databases consist of a series of related tables. The tables are interconnected via a key field. Use of the key field allows the combination of the tables by indexing against the key field i.e. the key fields act as dimensional pivot points for combining information from various tables. Relationships generally identify links maintained between tables by matching primary keys. Primary keys represent fields that uniquely identify the rows of a table in a relational database. More precisely they uniquely identify rows of a table on the one side of a one to many relationship.

Alternatively the Composite Content Generator database may be implemented using various standard data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table and or the like. Such data structures may be stored in memory and or in structured files. In another alternative an object oriented database may be used such as Frontier QbjectStore Poet Zope and or the like. Object databases can include a number of object collections that are grouped and or linked together by common attributes they may be related to other object collections by some common attributes. Object oriented databases perform similarly to relational databases with the exception that objects are not just pieces of data but may have other types of functionality encapsulated within a given object. If the Composite Content Generator system database is implemented as a data structure the use of the Composite Content Generator database may be integrated into another component such as the Composite Content Generator component . Also the database may be implemented as a mix of data structures objects and relational structures. Databases may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing techniques. Portions of databases e.g. tables may be exported and or imported and thus decentralized and or integrated.

In one embodiment the database component includes several tables . A users table includes fields such as but not limited to a user name ip address email address address payment information e.g. credit card information usage profile transaction history id user id and or the like. An content type table includes fields such as but not limited to content id selector id category id and or the like. A template table includes fields such as but not limited to template id template category id digital rights setting supported output format and or the like. A content table includes fields such as but not limited to content id content template id vendor id section selector id and or the like. A content charges table includes fields such as but not limited to content id section selector id charge vendor id and or the like. A content vendor table includes fields such as but not limited to company id company name company address content id and or the like. An ads table includes fields such as but not limited to company id user id campaign id ad id coupon expiration ad content logo and or the like.

In one embodiment the Composite Content Generator system database may interact with other database systems. For example employing a distributed database system queries and data access by Composite Content Generator system component may treat the combination of the Composite Content Generator system database an integrated data security layer database as a single database entity.

In one embodiment user programs may contain various user interface primitives which may serve to update the Composite Content Generator system. Also various accounts may require custom database tables depending upon the environments and the types of clients the Composite Content Generator system may need to serve. It should be noted that any unique fields may be designated as a key field throughout. In an alternative embodiment these tables have been decentralized into their own databases and their respective database controllers i.e. individual database controllers for each of the above tables . Employing standard data processing techniques one may further distribute the databases over several computer systemizations and or storage devices. Similarly configurations of the decentralized database controllers may be varied by consolidating and or distributing the various database components . The Composite Content Generator system may be configured to keep track of various settings inputs and parameters via database controllers.

The Composite Content Generator system database may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the Composite Content Generator system database communicates with the Composite Content Generator system component other program components and or the like. The database may contain retain and provide information regarding other nodes and data.

The Composite Content Generator component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The Composite Content Generator affects accessing obtaining and the provision of information services transactions and or the like across various communications networks. In one embodiment the Composite Content Generator component incorporates all the aspects of the Composite Content Generator discussed in the previous Figures.

The Composite Content Generator component enables and provides a straightforward unified and transparent interface that automatically presents users with a the ability to customize and generate composite publications and purchases thereof.

The Composite Content Generator component enabling access of information between nodes may be developed by employing standard development tools such as but not limited to ANSI Objective C Apache components binary executables database adapters Java JavaScript mapping tools procedural and object oriented development tools PERL Python shell scripts SQL commands web application server extensions WebObjects and or the like. In one embodiment the Composite Content Generator system server employs a cryptographic server to encrypt and decrypt communications. The Composite Content Generator system component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the Composite Content Generator system component communicates with the Composite Content Generator system database operating systems other program components and or the like. The Composite Content Generator system may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The structure and or operation of any of the Composite Content Generator node controller components may be combined consolidated and or distributed in any number of ways to facilitate development and or deployment. Similarly the component collection may be combined in any number of ways to facilitate deployment and or development. To accomplish this one may integrate the components into a common code base or in a facility that can dynamically load the components on demand in an integrated fashion.

The component collection may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing and or development techniques. Multiple instances of any one of the program components in the program component collection may be instantiated on a single node and or across numerous nodes to improve performance through load balancing and or data processing techniques. Furthermore single instances may also be distributed across multiple controllers and or storage devices e.g. databases. All program component instances and controllers working in concert may do so through standard data processing communication techniques.

The configuration of the Composite Content Generator controller will depend on the context of system deployment. Factors such as but not limited to the budget capacity location and or use of the underlying hardware resources may affect deployment requirements and configuration. Regardless of if the configuration results in more consolidated and or integrated program components results in a more distributed series of program components and or results in some combination between a consolidated and distributed configuration data may be communicated obtained and or provided. Instances of components consolidated into a common code base from the program component collection may communicate obtain and or provide data. This may be accomplished through intra application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to data referencing e.g. pointers internal messaging object instance variable communication shared memory space variable passing and or the like.

If component collection components are discrete separate and or external to one another then communicating obtaining and or providing data with and or to other component components may be accomplished through inter application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to Application Program Interfaces API information passage distributed Component Object Model D COM Distributed Object Linking and Embedding D OLE and or the like Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA process pipes shared files and or the like. Messages sent between discrete component components for inter application communication or within memory spaces of a singular component for intra application communication may be facilitated through the creation and parsing of a grammar. A grammar may be developed by using standard development tools such as lex yacc XML and or the like which allow for grammar generation and parsing functionality which in turn may form the basis of communication messages within and between components. Again the configuration will depend upon the context of system deployment.

The entirety of this disclosure including the Cover Page Title Headings Field Background Summary Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description Claims Abstract Figures and otherwise shows by way of illustration various embodiments in which the claimed inventions may be practiced. The advantages and features of the disclosure are of a representative sample of embodiments only and are not exhaustive and or exclusive. They are presented only to assist in understanding and teach the claimed principles. It should be understood that they are not representative of all claimed inventions. As such certain aspects of the disclosure have not been discussed herein. That alternate embodiments may not have been presented for a specific portion of the invention or that further undescribed alternate embodiments may be available for a portion is not to be considered a disclaimer of those alternate embodiments. It will be appreciated that many of those undescribed embodiments incorporate the same principles of the invention and others are equivalent. Thus it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and functional logical organizational structural and or topological modifications may be made without departing from the scope and or spirit of the disclosure. As such all examples and or embodiments are deemed to be non limiting throughout this disclosure. Also no inference should be drawn regarding those embodiments discussed herein relative to those not discussed herein other than it is as such for purposes of reducing space and repetition. For instance it is to be understood that the logical and or topological structure of any combination of any program components a component collection other components and or any present feature sets as described in the figures and or throughout are not limited to a fixed operating order and or arrangement but rather any disclosed order is exemplary and all equivalents regardless of order are contemplated by the disclosure. Furthermore it is to be understood that such features are not limited to serial execution but rather any number of threads processes services servers and or the like that may execute asynchronously concurrently in parallel simultaneously synchronously and or the like are contemplated by the disclosure. As such some of these features may be mutually contradictory in that they cannot be simultaneously present in a single embodiment. Similarly some features are applicable to one aspect of the invention and inapplicable to others. In addition the disclosure includes other inventions not presently claimed. Applicant reserves all rights in those presently unclaimed inventions including the right to claim such inventions file additional applications continuations continuations in part divisions and or the like thereof. As such it should be understood that advantages embodiments examples functional features logical organizational structural topological and or other aspects of the disclosure are not to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims or limitations on equivalents to the claims.

