---

title: Electronic mail recovery utilizing recorded mapping table
abstract: A method for retrieving deleted data is described. The present method includes receiving a request to locate deleted data. The request includes criteria for approximating said deleted data. The deleted data is stored in a recovery log. The method also includes receiving an affirmation that the located deleted data is the deleted data being requested. The affirmation is by the requester of said deleted data. The method further includes transmitting the recovered data to the requester upon receiving the affirmation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08533271&OS=08533271&RS=08533271
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 08533271
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060210
---
Embodiments of the present invention are related to electronic mail systems. More particularly embodiments of the present invention relate to systems that facilitate the recovery of deleted electronic mail messages.

In a computer system or in a network of computer systems a common mechanism for communication is electronic mail e.g. e mail. E mail enables a computing system user to communicate data to another computing system user or to a plurality of users. It is noted that nearly anything that is in digital form can be sent from one user to another user via electronic mail.

In a condensed practical example of e mail a computer user utilizes an e mail agent computer mail program to compose an e mail message. The e mail message contains the e mail address of one or more recipients. The e mail agent passes the message to a transport service for delivery to the mailbox of each recipient. Each recipient may or may not use the same e mail agent as the sender. Once delivered the recipient utilizes their particular e mail agent to read the e mail message.

By virtue of electronic mail being significantly faster and substantially less expensive than regular postal mail a large percentage of individuals educational institutions governments and businesses both large and small have embraced electronic mail as a solution in part to their communication needs. In fact e mail communication has become a necessary means of communication.

Within many electronic mail programs when a user deletes an e mail message the e mail message is not really deleted. The deleted e mail may be sent to a deleted e mail folder within the email application and from which the user then deletes the deleted email. While in the deleted folder a deleted e mail message is typically still locally present and can be recovered. However once the user deletes the e mail message from the deleted folder the e mail message is usually lost.

While this may be acceptable for those entities having low electronic mail volume or non critical e mail e.g. individual users and small offices many businesses companies educational institutions and government agencies desire to retain their electronic mail. Retaining a history of deleted electronic mail is becoming more and more commonplace for but is not limited to tracking intra office and or inter office communication evidentiary support in litigious proceedings tracking flow of data associated with the electronic mail or nearly any other reason for retaining electronic mail.

Currently in order to recover an e mail message for a user some entities utilize recovery logs to store deleted electronic mail. In this instance when a user wants to recover a deleted e mail the entity s administrator needs to be informed of the exact time the e mail message was deleted by the electronic mail garbage collector process. By knowing the exact time the administrator would then guess which log the deleted e mail message was placed as defined by the DELETE INSERT operation associated therewith. After guessing the log s the administrator would then need to supply the list of log s to an email recovery script. This method is error prone and tedious because the wrong log may have been guessed.

If more than one e mail was deleted and it encompasses more than one log then the guess work as to which logs the deleted e mail was placed becomes a non trivial problem for the administrator. If the administrator chooses more than one log then guesswork becomes a performance hit by virtue of the time required to mine all those logs. The email recovery script then would mine the logs to recover the complete email data which may be spread across more than one table . Because of the guesswork involved in determining the logs for e mail recovery the whole process becomes a method of trial and error. This can cause a retrieval time approximating twenty minutes or more for a single message recovery. Additionally the administrator may not be able to selectively recover the deleted electronic mail.

Thus many current electronic mail and associated e mail retrieval systems may not provide an efficient mechanism for storing and or retrieving of deleted electronic mail. Accordingly there exists a need for an efficient method and system for retrieving deleted electronic mail from recovery logs or similar data repositories.

Accordingly embodiments of the present invention are drawn to a method and system for efficient retrieval of deleted data particularly deleted electronic mail messages. Embodiments of the present invention use a plurality of tables in one or more recovery logs to store a user s deleted electronic mail in which the tables are configured to store portions of each electronic mail. Upon a message being deleted its identification and identification of the current recovery log are stored in a map. Embodiments of the present invention provide for rapid and efficient retrieval of deleted electronic mail. Embodiments of the present invention also provide for selectively retrieving deleted electronic mail. Embodiments of the present invention additionally provide transmitting the retrieved electronic mail to the requester.

In an embodiment when an e mail message is to be deleted a mapping of a unique identification code of the e mail message and the currently active recovery log is stored into a mapping table of the computer system. The mapping table also stores header information related to the deleted message e.g. sender information receiver information subject text etc. In one embodiment the MIME portion of the e mail message is stored in the active recovery log after deletion by the garbage collector. The remainder of the e mail message can be ignored in this embodiment.

Upon e mail retrieval a graphical user interface can be employed by a requesting party. Using such a system a user inputs some identification material query information regarding the e mail message to be recovered e.g. sender receiver subject date etc. The mapping table is then searched for a listing of e mail messages that match the query information. This listing may be displayed to the user using the graphical user interface. The user is then allowed to select e.g. highlight which e mail message is to be retrieved. The system then accesses the mapping table for each selected e mail message using the message s unique identification code. Based on the mapping table the recovery log that stores the MIME information for the e mail message is known. The system then scans the identified recovery log for the proper MIME information for the selected message to be recovered. Once retrieved the system forwards the MIME information to a mail server e.g. SMTP server which converts the MIME information back to a recovered e mail message which may then be forwarded to the in box of the requesting party. In this embodiment there is a performance improvement since only MIME information is mined from the recovery log which was stored in a single relational table.

Advantages of embodiments of the present invention as will be shown below may include but is not limited to logically storing deleted e mail messages querying a mapping table containing information related to the location of the deleted e mail message querying just the particular recovery log in which the deleted e mail message is stored rather than scanning any and all active recovery logs retrieving the deleted e mail message from a table within the recovery log that contains the MIME information associated with the deleted e mail message while ignoring other information contained within various other tables. These embodiments advantageously provide decreased recovery time for retrieving deleted e mail messages user selectability of recoverable e mail messages and forwarding of those recovered e mail message to the user s e mail inbox.

Embodiments for a method and system for retrieving electronic mail using a mapping table is described. Reference will now be made in detail to the preferred embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the preferred embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to these embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore in the following detailed description of the present invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention are discussed primarily in the context of a relational database having a data recovery feature e.g. recovery logs and a log mining feature operable therewith. However it is noted that embodiments of the present invention can be utilized by other software applications having database like functionalities that may be configured to utilize recovery logs and mining features including but not limited to a database application.

Still referring to shown in client computer system is a database shown in client computer system is a database and shown in server computer system is a database in an embodiment of the present invention. In accordance with embodiments of the present invention database may be different from database and database and database may be different from database . It is noted that in another embodiment of the present invention databases and may be analogous. In an alterative embodiment server computer system may have a database or and client computer systems and may not include a database or such that client computer systems or may access a database remotely.

Within each database e.g. databases and shown is an associated recovery log e.g. recovery logs and respectively in an embodiment of the present invention. The recovery log is sometimes called a redo log. In an alternative embodiment each database and may each utilize the same recovery log e.g. recovery log . It is noted that recovery log may be disposed local to the database and or remote to the database such that portions of a particular recovery log may be distributed among available computer systems and or data storage devices. The configuration of which database uses which particular recovery log is dependent in part upon system resources and administrator desires and as such nearly any configuration can be implemented. It is noted that in the context of the present invention a recovery log may be utilized for storing deleted electronic mail.

Computer system of also includes a data storage device coupled with bus for storing instructions and information. Information may be stored in a database e.g. database or . Data storage device also includes a mapping table in an embodiment of the present invention. Mapping table is enabled to store identifying information related to instances of electronic mail that has been deleted. Data storage device further includes a recovery log e.g. recovery log in an embodiment of the present invention. Recovery log is enabled to store portions of deleted electronic mail in such a manner that the original e mail can be reconstructed from those portions in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. It is noted that recovery log and mapping table are described in detail in .

By virtue of the desire to retain deleted electronic mail for facilitating the retrieval thereof it is noted that recovery log and mapping table are stored within a data storage device e.g. in which data is stored in a relatively permanent environment. However in an alternative embodiment portions of recovery log and or mapping table may be combinationally distributed among non volatile memory e.g. ROM and a data storage device . Data storage device can be for example an HDD hard disk drive an FDD floppy disk drive a compact memory device a CD RW compact disk with write functionality a DVD RW or DVD RW digital versatile disk with or write functionality a dual layer DVD a tape drive etc. and furthermore device can be in multiples or in a combination thereof. Data storage device may also be local or remote to the computer system plurally instanced removable and or hot swappable connected or unconnected while computer system is powered .

With reference still to computer system also includes a network communication device which is coupled to bus for providing a communication link between computer system and a network environment e.g. network environment of . As such network communication device enables central processor unit to communicate with other electronic systems coupled to the network e.g. network of . It should be appreciated that the present embodiment of network communication device is well suited to be implemented in a wide variety of ways. In one example network communication device is coupled to an antenna and provides the functionality to transmit and receive information over a wireless communication interface e.g. Bluetooth IR infra red RF radio frequency satellite and the like. In another example network communication device could be implemented as a modem wired or wireless. In yet another example network communication device could be configured as a NIC network interface card wired or wireless.

Still referring to network communication device in an embodiment includes an optional digital signal processor DSP for processing data to be transmitted or data that are received via network communication device . Alternatively processor can perform some or all of the functions performed by DSP .

Also included in computer system of is an optional alphanumeric input device . In an implementation device is a keyboard. Device can be physically coupled to computer system . Alternatively device may be wirelessly coupled to computer system . Alphanumeric input device can communicate information and command selections to processor .

Computer system of also includes an optional cursor control or directing device on screen cursor control coupled to bus for communicating user input information and command selections to processor . In another common implementation on screen cursor control device is a mouse or similar pointing device.

Computer system also contains a display device coupled to the bus for displaying information to the computer user.

Still referring to shown coupled to bus are a messaging system and a mining mechanism . Messaging system is enabled to delete electronic mail via an email garbage collection process and to receive requests to retrieve deleted electronic mail from a user and to transmit the results of the retrieval request via a mail server e.g. mail server to the requesting entity e.g. a user an application or other entity.

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention it is noted that messaging system is enabled to logically organize deleted electronic mail messages within a recovery log e.g. recovery log or within a plurality of recovery logs e.g. recovery logs and . Logically organizing deleted electronic mail enables mining mechanism to but is not limited to rapidly retrieve deleted e mail messages.

In an embodiment of the present invention Oracle Collaboration Suite by Oracle International Corporation of Redwood City Calif. USA may be used as messaging system .

Computer system of is further shown to include a mining mechanism operable therewith for performing portions of an electronic mail message recovery process.

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention mining mechanism may be comprised in part of a recovery mechanism . In an embodiment of the present invention recovery mechanism may be a recovery application programming interface API that is configured to retrieve information related to a deleted electronic mail message that is stored in a mapping table e.g. mapping table and or a recovery log e.g. recovery log . Mining mechanism may be further enabled to utilize the information retrieved from mapping table for querying a recovery log e.g. recovery log and retrieving therefrom those electronic mail messages matching the information retrieved from a mapping table . Mining mechanism may also be enabled to forward the retrieved electronic mail message to a mail server e.g. mail server which in turn reconstructs the retrieved electronic mail message and transmits the e mail message to the user requesting its recovery. In an alternative embodiment mining mechanism is enabled to examine any and all recovery logs communicatively coupled with computer system e.g. and or in which deleted electronic mail messages may be stored.

In an embodiment of the present invention mining mechanism may be included within messaging system . In an alternative embodiment mining mechanism may be separate from and operable with messaging system . Further while recovery mechanism is shown disposed within a mining mechanism in an alternative embodiment recovery mechanism may be separate from but operable in conjunction with mining mechanism .

In an embodiment of the present invention Logminer by Oracle Corporation International may be part of messaging system and may be utilized as mining mechanism .

With reference to shown is a client computer system analogous to client computer system of and or computer system of . Coupled to client computer system is a database . It is noted that database may reside within client computer system . In an alternative embodiment database may be externally disposed and coupled to client computer system .

Also shown in are messaging system mining mechanism recovery log and mapping table in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Recovery log described in detail in is shown to have disposed therein a plurality of tables e.g. tables N in an embodiment of the present invention. In an embodiment of the present invention each table may contain different portions of deleted electronic mail messages. For example a table may contain sender information a table may contain addressee information a table may contain date time information a table may contain the subject line information a table may contain header information and so on to table N. It is noted that the contents of the tables N are exemplary in nature and as such should not be construed as limiting. In the present embodiment recovery log is configured to store electronic mail messages in a particular messaging format e.g. in a MIME multipurpose Internet message extension format. It is noted that the e mail message may be in an alternative message format provided the alternative message format comprises functionalities similar to the MIME format.

It is further noted that there may be pluralities of recovery logs disposed within a single computer system . For example recovery logs of may all be disposed within computer system . In an embodiment of the present invention one or more recovery logs may be configured to store information e.g. deleted electronic mail messages that are in a multipurpose Internet mail extension MIME format. It is additionally noted that in an alternative embodiment electronic mail messages may be stored in a recovery log configured to store e mail messages that is in a format compatible with but not limited to multipurpose Internet mail extensions. It is particularly advantageous to store deleted electronic mail messages in a recovery log configured for MIME format because a mail server e.g. an SMTP mail server is then able reconstruct the e mail messages without reformatting and send the reconstructed electronic mail to the user that requested the recovery of a deleted e mail message. By storing electronic mail messages in a MIME format the mail server does not have to reformat the electronic mail message prior to sending thus advantageously providing a substantial reduction in retrieval time.

It is particularly noted that operable in conjunction with mining mechanism is a recovery mechanism . In an embodiment of the present invention recovery mechanism may be an application programming interface API that enables querying mapping tables and recovery logs in conjunction with recovering deleted e mail messages. In an embodiment the recovery API used in conjunction with mining mechanism may be located in data storage device non volatile memory or in a combination thereof.

In the present example each table in recovery log contains a particular portion of the deleted e mail message. For example table contains information related to the sender of the e mail message table contains information related to the recipient of the e mail message table contains data and time sent information table containing information related to the subject line of the e mail message table contains information related to the header of the e mail message and table contains information related to the body of the e mail. Alternative types of information that may be included in the header information in table and used in conjunction with e mail message retrieval can include but is not limited to an e mail generated message ID content type body content authentication information priority information thread type and index content class and the like.

It is noted that an administrator of network of may define the number of tables within a recovery log and may define which portions of the e mail message are to be placed within a particular table.

Still referring to tables may be configured with a size limit. In an example each table may be configured to store a maximum of ten megabytes of data. Accordingly if the body content of a deleted e mail message contains fifty megabytes of information the body may be distributed across at least five tables .

Mapping table of is shown to include a plurality of sections that may include but is not limited to message ID recovery log number database instance ID and header information in an embodiment of the present invention. In accordance with embodiments of the present invention message ID may contain a unique identifier for each instance of a deleted e mail message recovery log number may contain an identifier to indicate which recovery log is storing the MME information of the deleted e mail message database instance ID may contain information indicating the database in which the associated recovery log is located and header information may contain the header information associated with the deleted e mail message which mining mechanism in conjunction with recovery mechanism can utilize to recover an instance of a deleted e mail message.

Within each table are shown a message ID number associated with each e mail message deleted in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. In an example the e mail being deleted and subsequently being recovered is e mail message . In an embodiment of the present invention an e mail message is deleted by a user in accordance with the e mail system operable in computer system . Messaging system of obtains a unique e mail message identifier in this example identifier . Messaging system then propagates the information related to the deleted e mail message into the appropriate tables within recovery log and also propagates the information into mapping table as shown in in an embodiment of the present invention.

It is noted that in the present embodiment multiple users are associated with recovery log . In an alternative embodiment recovery log may contain information associated with a single user such that each user is associated with a particular recovery log.

In operation of process messaging system is operable to detect and receive requests to delete an e mail message in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. When messaging system receives a request to delete an e mail message e.g. e mail message of process proceeds to operation . If no requests to delete e mail messages are received by messaging system process continues awaiting such requests. For example a user of computer system desires to delete an e mail message and accordingly has initiated an e mail delete process.

In operation of process upon receiving a request to delete an e mail message messaging system obtains the identification of the current recovery log active in the system that is being utilized for storing deleted e mail messages e.g. recovery logs or in an embodiment of the present invention. In the present example the active system recovery log is recovery log of and .

In operation of process messaging system obtains the header information related to the to be deleted e mail message in an embodiment of the present invention. Header information can include but is not limited to sender recipient subject and date associated with the e mail message. Messaging system additionally obtains an identification code for uniquely identifying the e mail message e.g. identifier in an embodiment of the present invention. Alternatively messaging system may create a unique identifier for the e mail message. In the present example the unique identifier for the deleted e mail message is as shown in mapping table and recovery log of .

In operation of process and in accordance with embodiments of the present invention messaging system enters the header information the unique identification of the e mail message e.g. and the identification of the active recovery log into which the deleted e mail message is placed into a mapping table e.g. mapping table of . In the present example e mail message is shown in mapping table and is associated with the active system recovery log e.g. recovery log and the database with which the recovery log is coupled e.g. database in an embodiment of the present invention.

In operation of process and in accordance with embodiments of the present invention messaging system enters the MIME information associated with the to be deleted e mail message with the table information e.g. table within a particular recovery log e.g. recovery log . In an embodiment of the present invention table is configured to retain e mail messages in a MIME format. In the present example the MIME portion of e mail message is shown disposed in table of recovery log .

In operation of process subsequent to the MIME information associated with the to be deleted e mail message being entered into the active recovery log e.g. recovery log messaging system deletes the e mail message.

In operation of process a user accesses an e mail recovery web page by directing a browser e.g. Mozilla Internet Explorer Netscape or any other browser to a particular web page or pages for initiating an e mail message recovery process as shown in browser window of . Continuing the user enters pertinent information associated with the desired deleted e mail message into the proper user interface windows displayed within a browser window e.g. user interface windows of browser window of in an embodiment of the present invention.

Continuing with operation once the search information related to the deleted e mail has been entered into the various user interface windows via browser window of the user clicks on search button of which causes recovery mechanism to query a mapping table e.g. mapping table for matches to the user entered information.

In operation of process of subsequent to a user selecting search button a recovery mechanism e.g. recovery mechanism of and queries mapping table for matches predicated upon the criteria entered by the user within user interface windows e.g. e mail message in an embodiment of the present invention. Recovery mechanism then creates a listing of the matching e mail messages and causes a user selectable display of those matching e mail messages within the recoverable e mail interface window of in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

In operation of process the user utilizes browser window to select one or more e mail messages via recoverable e mail interface window particularly utilizing e mail message selector section of . E mail message selector section enables a user to particularly select those e mail messages that the user desires to recover. Upon a user selecting those e mail messages that are desired via selector section the user then selects recover button to initiate the recovery process.

In operation of process upon a user selecting recover button recovery mechanism then utilizes the known message IDs of the selected e mails to index the mapping table to obtain the identified active system recovery log storing the MIME information associated with the deleted e mail message to be recovered.

In operation of process the table containing the MIME information associated with the identified recovery log is then scanned by recovery mechanism to recover the MIME information related to the desired e mail message. In the exemplary example table in recovery log of contains the matching e mail message in a MIME format that is identified using its associated message ID e.g. message ID number . By virtue of mapping table containing information related to the recover log in which the desired e mail message is stored recovery mechanism directly examines the MIME table in the recovery log e.g. table in recovery log instead of examining all the tables within a recovery log. Advantageously this achieves a reduction in the time consumed in an e mail message retrieval process.

In operation of process once the user selected e mail message has been retrieved from its associated table e.g. table of recovery log a mail server e.g. mail server of transforms the MIME data to a recovered e mail message and forwards the recovered e mail message to the requesting user s electronic mail inbox. It is noted that in an alternative embodiment of the present invention the recovered e mail message may be forwarded to a particular folder in the user s e mail mailbox. It is further noted that in yet another embodiment the recovered e mail message may be forwarded to the user s e mail folder from which the e mail message was originally deleted.

In operation of process subsequent to mail server forwarding the recovered e mail message to the requesting user s e mail inbox the user is presented with an e mail recover confirmation page e.g. confirmation window of browser display of indicating successful recovery of the intended e mail message in an embodiment of the present invention.

In accordance with embodiments of the present invention once presented with browser window of indicating successful e mail message recovery the user may then utilize their e mail program to access the recovered e mail message s .

Still referring to process of it is particularly noted that operations and are each performed for each instance of an e mail message that is to be recovered in accordance with embodiments of the present invention.

Within browser shown is a uniform resource locator URL window in which a user would enter the proper URL address e.g. http www.xxx.xxx to direct browser to access one or more web pages that is are utilized during the retrieval process. Browser further includes user interface windows and for searching the stored header information of the mapping table. In an embodiment each user interface window is associated with a field the mapping table. In the present embodiment user interface window allows for entering the recipient s e mail address. Continuing user interface window allows for entering the sender of the deleted e mail. User interface window allows for entering the subject of the deleted e mail. User interface windows and allow for entering date ranges from and to a particular date respectively. It is particularly noted that additional user interface windows associated with other fields disposed in the mapping table may be added to the shown user interface windows within browser thus providing additional criteria with which mining mechanism may utilize to recover a desired deleted electronic mail message.

Browser window in also includes a search button for initiating mining mechanism to examine recovery log for the deleted e mail. Once a requester has entered necessary and or known information related to the deleted e mail as shown in user interface windows the requester would click on search button to commence the search of the header information of the mapping table for the particular e mail.

Browser window additionally includes a recoverable e mail display section in which mining mechanism causes to be displayed therewithin information related to those e mails that were discovered in mapping table utilizing the criteria presented in user interface windows and . In an embodiment the information related to the recoverable e mail can include but is not limited to sender date subject a database reference number instance ID the number of the recovery log in which the information was stored e.g. recovery log and whether the recoverable e mail is located on a disk e.g. data storage device of .

Browser window in further includes a drop down menu for specifying the function to be performed in conjunction with browser window . In the embodiment shown browser window is displaying that which is used to retrieve e mail.

In an alternative embodiment additional criteria may be entered within the existing user interface windows to enhance the search result. It is also noted that in yet another embodiment additional user interface windows may be implemented such that additional criteria may be used to further enhance the search result.

Continuing with display section of in display sub section the sender s e mail address including user name and domain and which is associated with the retrievable e mail is shown in display sub section the date of a retrievable e mail is shown in display sub section the subject of the retrievable e mail is shown in display sub section the user is informed of the database instance identification related to the retrievable e mail in display sub section the user is informed of the recovery log number in which the retrievable e mail is located e.g. recovery log and in display sub section the user is informed if the retrievable e mail is located on a disk e.g. data storage device of .

By informing the user requester of those e mails that match the criteria the user is enabled to more precisely retrieve those deleted e mails desired by the user. It is noted that the subsections within display section e.g. display sections are exemplary in nature and as such should not be construed as a limitation. In fact display section may be comprised of fewer or greater numbers of subsections.

Once the user requester has selected the desired retrievable e mails e.g. clicking on one or more shown e mails the user would then click on recover button causing an application programming interface operable therewith e.g. recovery mechanism to retrieve the user selected and retrievable e mail from the identified recovery log.

Subsequent to being presented with browser window of the user would then access their e mail account mailbox in a manner appropriate for the electronic mail system operable in conjunction with computer system and network . Upon accessing their e mail account mailbox the user would find the recovered e mail message s having been sent to the user by messaging system in an embodiment of the present invention. In accordance with embodiments of the present invention forwarding of the recovered e mail message s may be performed by a mail server e.g. mail server of .

In an embodiment of the present invention the recovered emails may be sent to the user s e mail inbox. In an alternative embodiment the recovered emails may be sent to an associated folder within the user s e mail inbox. In yet another embodiment the recovered email may be sent to the folder from which the e mail was deleted. It is noted that in still another embodiment the recovered email may be sent to wherever the user desires.

Still referring to in an embodiment of the present invention an SMTP simple mail transfer protocol mail server may be implemented as mail server to send the recovered e mail to the user. In another embodiment alternative protocols may be utilized. It is noted that nearly any mailing protocol properly configured may be used to send the recovered e mail to the requesting user.

Thus embodiments of the present invention are drawn to providing a method and system for efficiently recovering deleted electronic mail messages through recovery log and mapping table utilization. Further by virtue of logically storing deleted e mail messages in a recovery log retrieval of those deleted e mails advantageously consumes substantially less time and fewer system resources when compared to conventional e mail recovery processes. Additionally utilization of the web based access mechanism described herein enables a user to particularly select those deleted e mails that are desired also providing a substantial reduction in retrieval time.

The foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed and many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the Claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

