---

title: Systems and methods for recording using virtual machines
abstract: A recording system that includes software configured to enable a first guest operating system to function in a virtual machine operating environment, a first recording software enabled to function by the first guest operating system, at least one processor, and at least one communication interface configured to receive first data corresponding to a first contact corresponding to a first contact center agent. The at least one processor is instructed by the first recording software to cause the first data to be stored in memory.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08068602&OS=08068602&RS=08068602
owner: Verint Americas, Inc.
number: 08068602
owner_city: Roswell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060929
---
Contact centers are staffed by agents who handle incoming and or outgoing contacts. Although the traditional and most common form of contact is by phone other types of contacts are becoming more common e.g. text chat web collaboration email and fax . In order to facilitate such contact an agent workspace typically includes an agent phone and a workstation computer. A network connects one or more of the agent workstations.

During a customer contact the agent interacts with one or more applications running on the workstation. Workstation applications give the agent access to customer records product information ordering status and transaction history for example.

Contact centers typically record contacts of its agents along with data indicating what information was accessed or entered by the agent using the workstation. Recording is often performed by relatively expensive computers that include voice cards for enabling such a computer to receive and digitize communications. Unfortunately an interruption in recording can occur if the computer experiences software and or hardware failures.

Recording systems and methods are disclosed. An embodiment of such a system includes software configured to enable a first guest operating system to function in a virtual machine operating environment a first recording software enabled to function by the first guest operating system at least one processor and at least one communication interface configured to receive first data corresponding to a first contact corresponding to a first contact center agent. The at least one processor is instructed by the first recording software to cause the first data to be stored in memory.

An embodiment of a recording method includes receiving by a recording system data that encodes first and second telephone signals from a telephony tap the telephony tap being configured to receive a first telephone signal from a first telephone line coupled to a first telephone and a second telephone signal from a second telephone line couple to a second telephone to digitize the first and second telephone signals to generate the data that encodes the first and second telephone signals and to transmit the data that encodes the first and second telephone signals to the recording system. The method also includes storing the data that encodes the first and second telephone signals by the recording system.

Another embodiment of a recording method includes receiving by a first recording system first information corresponding to a contact corresponding to an agent in a contact center wherein the first recording system operates in conjunction with a first guest operating system that operates in a virtual machine environment storing the first information corresponding to a contact by the first recording system determining that the first recording system has experienced failure responsive to determining that the first recording system has experienced failure receiving by a second recording system second information corresponding to the agent wherein the second recording system operates in conjunction with a second guest operating system that operates in a virtual machine environment and storing the second information corresponding to a contact by the second recording system.

Other objects features and advantages of the embodiments will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description.

Contact centers are staffed by agents who handle incoming and or outgoing contacts e.g. telephone calls e mails facsimile transmissions etc. . According to an embodiment of the invention a virtual machine host uses a virtual recorder to record agent contacts. A plurality of virtual recorders may be used to record a plurality of contacts corresponding to a plurality of respective agents. The recording of agent contacts may be migrated from one virtual recorder to another e.g. hosted by another virtual machine host responsive to determining that a recording failure has occurred. An agent contact may also be recorded by a plurality of virtual recorders in order to ensure recording in case one of the plurality of virtual recorders or corresponding host fails.

The virtual machine host includes first and second virtual recorders and . The first virtual recorder is configured to record communications occurring via the telephone and or via the computer . The second virtual recorder is configured to record communications occurring via the telephone and or via the computer . The telephones and are connected to a private branch exchange PBX which enables communications for the telephones and e.g. with other telephones not located on the premises .

The telephony tap is used to tap telephone signals propagating on the telephone lines and which are coupled to the telephones and respectively . The telephony tap digitizes the telephone signals from the telephone lines and formats them into telephone data having a predetermined data format and transmits the formatted telephone data to the virtual machine host hosting the first and second virtual recorders and . The first virtual recorder stores the formatted telephone data corresponding to the telephone line and the telephone whereas the second virtual recorder stores the formatted telephone data corresponding to the telephone line and the telephone .

In one failover embodiment for example the first virtual recorder sends a status message to the migrated virtual recorder at periodic intervals. The status message indicates whether the first virtual recorder is operational. If the migrated virtual recorder receives a status message from the first virtual recorder indicating that the first virtual recorder is in a failed state or if the migrated virtual recorder does not receive a status message for a predetermined interval then the migrated virtual recorder detects a failure and takes over recording functionality for the first virtual recorder .

Responsive to detecting the failure the migrated virtual recorder sends a message to the telephony tap directing the tap to send subsequent telephone data to the migrated virtual recorder instead of the first virtual recorder . Responsive to receiving the message from the migrated virtual recorder the telephony tap forwards subsequent telephone data to the migrated virtual recorder which then stores the subsequent telephone data.

In another failover embodiment for example redundant recording is implemented. In this embodiment the telephony tap sends telephone data to both the first virtual recorder and to the migrated virtual recorder so that the formatted telephone data may be stored in both virtual recorders. As a result if one virtual recorder fails or is de activated for scheduled maintenance the recorded telephone data may still be stored by the other virtual recorder.

The processor is a hardware device for executing software particularly that stored in the memory device . The processor can be a custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the virtual machine host a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set or generally any device for executing software instructions. When the virtual machine host is in operation the processor is configured to execute software stored within the memory device to communicate data to and from the memory device and to generally control operations of the virtual machine host pursuant to the software.

The peripheral device interfaces may be used to communicate with one or more peripheral devices including for example a printer a copier a keyboard a mouse and or a monitor etc. The peripheral device interfaces may include for example a serial port a parallel port a Small Computer System Interface SCSI an infra red IR interface a radio frequency RF interface and or a universal serial bus USB interface among others.

The network interface enables the virtual machine host to communicate with other devices such as for example the telephone tap and the computers and . The network interface may be for example an Ethernet interface.

The memory device can include any one or combination of volatile and or non volatile memory elements now known or later developed. For example the memory device may comprise random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard disk a tape and or a compact disk ROM CD ROM among others. Note that the memory device can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processor . In a preferred embodiment the memory device comprises DRAM.

The memory device includes a host operating system OS a first virtual recorder and a second virtual recorder . The Host OS essentially controls the execution of other applications and may provide scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and or communication control among other functionality. The host OS may be for example a Microsoft Macintosh or Linux based operating system among others.

The virtual machine software which may be for example software provided by VMWare among others operates using the host OS . The virtual machine software enables a plurality of guest operating systems to function in the virtual machine host by providing a virtual machine environment in which the guest operating systems can function. In this embodiment the virtual machine software enables the guest OS and guest OS to function. The guest OS and guest OS may be for example Microsoft Macintosh or Linux based operating systems among others.

The first virtual recorder operates using the guest OS whereas the second virtual recorder operates using the guest OS . In other embodiments the first and second virtual recorders and may both operate using the same operating system. The first and second virtual recorders and include respective telephony tap drivers that enable communication with the telephony tap .

The virtual recorders and can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system or a processor containing system. In the context of this disclosure a computer readable medium can be any means that can store communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example among others an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium now known or later developed.

The processor is a hardware device for executing software particularly that stored in the memory device . The processor controls operations of the telephony tap pursuant to the software.

The network interface enables the telephony tap to communicate with other devices such as for example the virtual machine hosts and . The network interface may be for example an Ethernet interface.

The memory device can include any one or combination of volatile and or non volatile memory elements now known or later developed. In a preferred embodiment the memory device comprises DRAM. In this embodiment the memory device includes an OS and telephony software . The OS essentially controls the execution of the other applications and may provide scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and or communication control among other functionality. The telephony software is used to enable transmission of the formatted telephone data to the virtual machine hosts.

It should be noted that any process descriptions or blocks in flowcharts should be understood as representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. As would be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art of the software development alternate embodiments are also included within the scope of the disclosure. In these alternate embodiments functions may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved.

This description has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure to the precise forms disclosed. Obvious modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiments discussed however were chosen to illustrate the principles of the disclosure and its practical application. The disclosure is thus intended to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to use the disclosure in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. All such modifications and variation are within the scope of this disclosure as determined by the appended claims when interpreted in accordance with the breadth to which they are fairly and legally entitled.

