---

title: Session initiation protocol enabled set-top device
abstract: A method and apparatus for handling subscriber services from different sources without requiring interaction with different devices. The present invention also provides a method and apparatus for receiving multimedia services using session initiation protocol (SIP) messages received from a source, such as a server on a network. In one embodiment, a set-top device is provided in which a SIP control is provided to register a subscriber with a server using SIP messages. A connection to a network, such as the Internet, is provided to communicate with the server. The set-top device is placed in line with the audio and video source to control audio and video streams presented to the subscriber. The set-top device is also configured to receive voice calls from a public switched telephone network (PSTN). Further, the set-top device includes a remote control mechanism, such as an infrared (IR) transmitter and receiver to receive input from the subscriber and to control other devices using IR signals. Also, subscriber services customized for a particular subscriber may be directed to the subscriber at a location when the subscriber registers with the server through a set-top device at that location using SIP. Services, such as, for example, call screening, channel guides, video on demand, and Web browsing are provided through the set-top device and messaging with a server using SIP messages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08069252&OS=08069252&RS=08069252
owner: Nortel Networks Limited
number: 08069252
owner_city: Mississauga, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20060331
---
This application is a divisional of application Ser. No. 09 561 834 filed Apr. 28 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 024 461 status allowed which is herein incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates generally to an improved communications system and in particular to a communications device. Still more particularly the present invention relates generally to a method and apparatus for enabling a communications device to perform functions using a session initiated protocol.

Programming such as subscription and pay per view video services are delivered to a subscriber s premises by both satellite and cable transmission systems. The systems provide both analog and digital data streams. A set top device is typically used to receive programming and distribute it in the premises of a subscriber. As used herein the term set top device or set top system is an aggregation of components used to provide subscriber services. As communications technology continues to expand subscribers are being presented with an ever increasing number of information sources in addition to satellite and cable transmission systems. For example video programs may be received over networks such as the Internet or public switched telephone systems. Currently such video programs are received by a computer or other device connected to the Internet. Other communications services such as telephone service over public switched telephone systems are handled by terminal devices such as telephones. As a result a subscriber must interact with a number of different devices to use all of the different types of services being offered by different providers. Having to use many different devices to access services can be frustrating to a subscriber.

Therefore it would be advantageous to have an improved method and apparatus for handling subscriber services from different sources without requiring interaction with difference devices.

The present invention provides a method and apparatus for handling subscriber services from different sources without requiring interaction with different devices. The present invention also provides a method and apparatus for receiving multimedia services using session initiation protocol SIP messages received from a source such as a server on a network. In one embodiment a set top device is provided in which a SIP control is provided to register a subscriber with a server using SIP messages. A connection to a network such as the Internet is provided to communicate with the server. The set top device is placed in line with the audio and video source to control audio and video streams presented to the subscriber. The set top device is also configured to receive voice calls from a public switched telephone network PSTN . Further the set top device includes a remote control mechanism such as an infrared IR transmitter and receiver to receive input from the subscriber and to control other devices using IR signals. Also subscriber services customized for a particular subscriber may be directed to the subscriber at a location when the subscriber registers with the server through a set top device at that location using SIP. Services such as for example call screening channel guides video on demand and Web browsing are provided through the set top device and messaging with a server using SIP messages.

Other aspects and features of the present invention will become apparent to those ordinarily skilled in the art upon review of the following description of specific embodiments of the invention in conjunction with the accompanying figures.

With reference now to the figures and in particular with reference now to a diagram of a communications system is illustrated in which the present invention may be implemented. Communications system includes a home which is able to receive services from a number of different sources. Home has a connection to public switched telephone network PSTN through which home is able to use telephone services. This connection is usually provided through twisted pair wire in the subscriber loop in PSTN . PSTN provides an analog transmission network for voice calls. Additionally a connection between cable network and home is present in which the connections are provided by a coaxial cable. Cable television services to home are provided through a content provider using cable network . Both analog and digital services may be provided through cable network . Satellite network provides digital services to home .

A connection from home to network is present. In this example network is the Internet with network representing a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers consisting of thousands of commercial government educational and other computer systems that route data and messages. Of course network also may be implemented as a number of different types of networks such as for example network may be a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . Additionally network may be a broadband network providing broadband services. A broadband service is a service requiring transmission channels capable of supporting rates greater than 1.5 Mbps a primary rate integrated services digital network ISDN TS1 or DS1 in digital terminology.

In this example proxy server provides access for various services to home across network . For example proxy server may be used to direct a call using voice over Internet Protocol IP to home . This call may originate from a device in PSTN with part of the call path being over network . Also proxy server may receive requests from home for video and stream the requested video to home . The connection between home and proxy server may take various forms such as an Ethernet connection established using an asymmetric digital subscriber loop ADSL line or an integrated services digital network ISDN line. Further a high bandwidth twisted pair or optical fiber also may be used to provide the connection between home and proxy server .

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention a text based signaling protocol such as for example session initiation protocol SIP is used to create modify and terminate sessions with one or more subscribers at home . A device or application operating on a device may establish a connection or session with a server on a network such as a broadband network to receive multimedia services. These services may include for example video telephony audio stations television station broadcasts call screening services channel guides video on demand and Web browsing services. Multimedia sources provide these services. Multimedia sources may be for example cable companies satellite programming companies television network companies and internet broadcast companies. The multimedia sources also may take the form of multimedia data located in a storage device such as for example movies in a digital form on hard disk drives. Further the present invention also provides a mechanism in which a particular user or subscriber can be identified with a particular device. The identification of the subscriber is used to determine the type of multimedia services provided. These determinations may be made either at the device or at the server. In the depicted examples the device takes the form of a set top device located in home . Of course the present invention is not limited to a set top device and may be applied to other communications devices such as for example a computer or a television.

SIP is an application layer control signaling protocol for creating modifying and terminating sessions with one or more participants. These sessions include Internet multimedia conferences Internet telephone calls and multimedia distribution. Members in a session can communicate via multicast a mesh of unicast relations or a combination of these.

SIP invitations are used to create sessions and carry session descriptions which allow participants to agree on a set of compatible media types. SIP supports user mobility by proxying and redirecting requests to the user s current location. Users can register their current location. SIP is not tied to any particular conference control protocol. SIP is designed to be independent of the lower layer transport protocol and can be extended with additional capabilities.

SIP can be used to initiate sessions as well as invite members to sessions that have been advertised and established by other means. Sessions can be advertised using multicast protocols such as SAP electronic mail news groups Web pages or directories LDAP among others.

SIP transparently supports name mapping and redirection services allowing the implementation of ISDN and Intelligent Network telephony subscriber services. These facilities also enable personal mobility. Personal mobility is the ability of end users to originate calls receive calls and access subscribed telecommunication services on any terminal and in any location as well as the ability of the network to identify end users as they move. Personal mobility is based on the use of a unique personal identity i.e. personal number . Personal mobility complements terminal mobility such as the ability to maintain communications when moving a single end system from one subnet to another. SIP supports five facets of establishing and terminating multimedia communications 1 user location determination of the end system to be used for communication 2 user capabilities determination of the media and media parameters to be used 3 user availability determination of the willingness of the called party to engage in communications 4 call setup ringing establishment of call parameters at both the called and calling party and 5 call handling including transfer and termination of calls.

Through SIP a subscriber at home can register the subscriber s current location. In such a case the subscriber when at home can have all calls directed to the subscriber sent to home by proxy server . A proxy server is an intermediary program that acts as both a server and a client for the purpose of making requests on behalf of other clients. Requests are serviced internally or by passing them on possibly after translation to other servers. A proxy server interprets and if necessary rewrites a request message before forwarding it. A proxy server may be implemented using for example a computer. The proxy on the server is an application that establishes the connection between the sender and receiver. Proxy servers may act as a fire wall or cache information such as web pages email or addresses.

SIP is independent of lower layer transport protocols and is used to start sessions while lower layer transport protocols are used to carry the data. A session involves the activities taking place during the establishment and release of a connection on a network. SIP allows for unicasting or multicasting and can invite both persons and robots such as a media storage service.

The registration capabilities provided by SIP allow for implementation of ISDN and Intelligent network IN services. More specifically SIP provides for personal mobility in which a subscriber is able to originate and receive calls and access subscribed telecommunications services in any location. A SIP enabled communications system is able to identify a subscriber as the subscriber moves from location to location. The personal mobility in SIP is based on a unique personal identifier such as a personal number. SIP services for a subscriber can be directed to the subscriber when the subscriber is located at home . In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention a SIP enabled set top device is provided in home to integrate services for a subscriber at home . More information on SIP may be found in the Internet standards track protocol entitled SIP Session Initiation Protocol Internet Engineering Task Force IETF RFC 2543 published in March 1999.

Turning next to a diagram of components in a home is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. In this example home is an example of a home in a communications system such as home in . Home includes a set top device which provides a common point for distributing services in home . In this example set top device acts as a client to receive services. Telephone is connected to set top device through which a subscriber may receive telephone calls. Also stereo and television are connected to set top device through which programming from a cable network may be displayed. Of course a wireless connection also may be provided to a satellite service provided in place of or in addition to a cable content provider. Video cassette recorder VCR and digital versatile disc DVD player are also connected to set top device . Set top device also provides a mechanism for subscriber input and control of devices using input devices such as for example remote control and infrared IR keyboard . Set top device is able to provide for control of both devices connected to set top device and to devices not connected to set top device through remote control or IR keyboard . Remote control or IR keyboard also may include a microphone to allow for voice activated commands recording or transmitting a subscriber s voice to set top device . This control may be provided using a number of different mechanisms. In the depicted example an infrared IR system is used in which input or commands are received from remote control or IR keyboard and appropriate commands are transmitted to devices using IR transmissions. For example set top device may program VCR to record a program via remote control . The input may be received through a SIP message from proxy server by the subscriber at client in a different geographic location which may be for example in the next room or at the office. Set top device programs VCR by sending a set of IR signals recognized by VCR . Examples of IR programming systems are found in U.S. Pat. No. 5 151 789 entitled System and Method for Automatic Unattended Recording of Cable Television Programs and U.S. Pat. No. 5 692 214 entitled System for Unattended Recording of Video Programs by Remote Control Transmitted Module Which Receives User Selection From a Personal Computer.

With reference now to a block diagram illustrating a SIP enabled set top device is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Set top device is an example of a set top device in which code or instructions implementing the processes of the present invention may be located. Set top device is also referred to as a set top box . Set top device in a preferred embodiment employs a peripheral component interconnect PCI local bus architecture. Although the depicted example employs a PCI bus other bus architectures such as Accelerated Graphics Port AGP and Industry Standard Architecture ISA may be used.

Processor and main memory are connected to PCI local bus through PCI bridge . PCI bridge also may include an integrated memory controller and cache memory for processor . Connections to PCI local bus may be made through direct component interconnection or through add in boards. Local area network LAN adapter connects to PCI local bus and provides a connection such as an ethernet connection to a proxy server such as proxy server in . In these examples multimedia services may be delivered through the connection provided by LAN adapter . Delivery mechanisms such as high bandwidth twisted pair DSL and optical fiber are examples of other mechanisms which may be used to deliver multimedia services. In this example multimedia services such as video on demand channel guides and browser functions may be delivered through a single network connection. In such a case a cable television connection may be unnecessary. LAN adapter provides a physical connection to allow set top device to communicate with a server using SIP via a SIP enabled application or software located on set top device . The SIP enabled application or software used to facilitate these multimedia services may be found in the form of instructions executed by processor . The instructions may be located in main memory or in some other storage device such as a read only memory or a hard disk drive.

Audio adapter and video adapter are connected to PCI local bus . These components also are connected to tuner unit in set top device . Tuner unit receives radio frequency RF signals and sends audio components to audio adapter and video adapter . These signals may be received from different sources such as for example a cable network. In particular tuner unit will convert and filter frequency modulated FM channels into an intermediate frequency IF channel. Further tuner unit includes circuitry necessary to demodulate the signal to obtain video and audio data for transmission to audio adapter and video adapter . Audio adapter and video adapter send the signals from tuner unit to outputs for presentation to a user or subscriber. Also audio adapter and video adapter include inputs to receive audio and video for processing. For example the inputs may be used to receive a program from a device such as DVD player in for presentation on a television or other display attached to set top device .

In this example set top device also includes a media adapter . Media adapter includes a general purpose programmable media processor for use in receiving and processing multiple media data streams including for example audio video and data. An example of a media processor which may be used in media adapter is found in U.S. Pat. No. 5 794 061 entitled General Purpose Multiple Precision Parallel Operation Programmable Media Processor. Media adapter may provide output to various components connected to set top device in conjunction with or in place of audio adapter and video adapter . A telephone modem adapter is also provided in which voice calls and data from a PSTN may be facilitated.

Next expansion bus interface provides a connection for a keyboard and mouse adapter and an infrared IR adapter . A keyboard and a pointer such as a mouse may be attached by a cable to set top device or input may be received from a wireless keyboard mouse or remote control. Although in the depicted examples IR input devices are used other types of wireless input systems may be used in combination with or in place of the IR system such as for example a RF keyboard or remote control.

An operating system runs on processor and is used to coordinate and provide control of various components within set top device in . The operating system may be a commercially available operating system such as NT Windows or Windows CE which are available from Microsoft Corporation. An object oriented programming system such as Java may run in conjunction with the operating system and provides calls to the operating system from Java programs or applications executing on set top device . Java is a trademark of Sun Microsystems Inc. Instructions for the operating system the object oriented operating system and applications or programs are located on storage devices such as hard disk drive and may be loaded into main memory for execution by processor . For example the applications running on set top device may receive SIP messages from LAN adapter and present messages or perform functions through set top device . The SIP messaging functions may be enabled in instructions such as application programming interfaces APIs .

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the hardware in may vary depending on the implementation. Other internal hardware or peripheral devices such as flash ROM or equivalent nonvolatile memory or optical disk drives and the like may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted in . Also the processes of the present invention may be applied to a multiprocessor set top device. The depicted example in and the above described examples are not meant to imply architectural limitations. For example the mechanism and processes of the present invention may be implemented in other types of devices other than a set top device such as a computer a television an adapter for a computer or a personal computer configured for use in an automobile. Also although a bus is illustrated the components in may be connected using any mechanism allowing communication between the components.

In a functional diagram of components in a SIP enabled application is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. SIP application in these examples is implemented in a set top device as shown in set top device in . SIP application in these examples is employed to provide multimedia services to a user through a connection to a server.

SIP application includes a SIP control which controls audio driver video driver and IR driver in these examples. These drivers form a multimedia interface in SIP application to send multimedia content to output devices. SIP control provides an interface through an ethernet connection to a network using LAN adapter in . An interface for SIP control to a PSTN also may be provided through a twisted pair using telephone modem adapter in . Audio driver is software for processing audio using audio adapter in while video driver is software for processing video using video adapter in . Audio driver allows for audio to be received at SIP application from a source such as a cable or satellite network and transmitted to a device such as for example a stereo or speakers in a television. Video driver provides for receiving video in SIP application and transmitting video from SIP application . The video may be received from a cable connection and transmitted to a television or other monitor. IR driver is software for sending and receiving IR signals to control various devices in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The device may include for example a VCR CD player DVD player computer or a television.

SIP control includes the appropriate interfaces such as for example application programming interfaces APIs to communicate with the various drivers in SIP application . The actual drivers employed depend on the hardware used to implement SIP application . More specifically SIP control exchanges SIP messages with a source such as a proxy server to setup a session. The session may involve for example a telephone call a video or controlling various devices. This control may be for example programming a VCR to record a program.

Although the depicted example in shows SIP application implemented in a set top device SIP application may be implemented into other devices such as for example a computer a television an adapter for use in a computer or a personal computer configured for use in an automobile. The functions provided by SIP application may be implemented entirely in software hardware or a combination of the two.

Turning next to a flowchart of a process for registering a subscriber is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The process is used in a set top device to register a subscriber with a proxy server. In these examples the process is implemented using instructions executed by a processor in the set top device. Such a registration allows for subscriber services to be directed to the subscriber at the location of the set top device. For example telephone calls may be directed to the subscriber using the subscriber s personal number. This registration process involves the presently available register method in SIP which allows a user agent to register with a server by sending a register request.

The process begins by detecting a subscriber at the set top device step . The subscriber may be detected in a number of ways. For example the subscriber may be detected when the set top device is turned on or when a control device such as a remote control is activated. Next a personal number associated with the subscriber is identified step . The personal number associated with the subscriber may be stored in a storage device such as for example a hard disk drive or other nonvolatile memory within the set top device. Alternatively the personal number may be identified by the subscriber entering the personal number. This number may be entered in a number of ways such as through a keyboard or remote control unit. In this manner multiple subscribers are able to access the set top device. Next the set top device sends a register request to a proxy server for the subscriber step . The proxy server will verify the subscriber and identify services associated with the subscriber. In this manner services for the subscriber can be directed to the subscriber through the set top device. This registration process allows for services and the billing of services to follow the subscriber rather than being based upon a particular hardware unit. Next the response is received step with the process terminating thereafter.

Turning next to a flowchart of a process to handle requests received by a set top device to route calls to a subscriber is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. In the depicted example these processes are implemented as instructions executed by a processor such as processor in . The process begins with the set top device receiving a request step . This request may take different forms such as for example a call from a calling party a message or a Web page being pushed to the subscriber. The type of media being used at the set top device is identified step . Step may be accomplished in a number of ways such as for example polling for active data streams being sent to devices attached to the set top device. A determination is made as to whether the subscriber can be alerted using the identified media step . For example if the subscriber is watching the television the subscriber may be alerted using a message on the screen and or by an audio prompt to obtain the subscriber s attention in case the subscriber is not looking at the television screen. Thereafter options are presented to the subscriber using a media type which matches the media type in the request step . A determination is made as to whether a subscriber selection has been received step . A check is made as to whether a user input such as for example the depressing of a selected key has occurred. If a subscriber selection is not received a determination is made as to whether a timeout has occurred step . A timer function may be checked to see if time has expired to identify a timeout. If a timeout has not occurred the process returns to step . When a subscriber selection is received in step the selected action is performed step with the process terminating thereafter.

With reference again to step if a timeout has occurred the message or content is stored for later presentation to the subscriber step with the process terminating thereafter. The message in this example is stored in a persistent memory such as a hard drive or nonvolatile random access memory. With reference again to step if the media type being used does not allow for the subscriber to be alerted the process also proceeds to step . This situation may occur for example if no devices are turned on or if the subscriber is only using the VCR to tape a program without the television being turned on. In these examples the subscriber cannot be alerted using a device in the home. Alternatively the set top device may include controls to turn on a device to alert the subscriber. The controls may include for example sending an IR signal to turn on a television or stereo. With respect to outgoing calls a subscriber may obtain a charge rate based on the identification of the subscriber rather than the particular set top device.

Turning next to diagrams illustrating a presentation of options to a subscriber for incoming call screening are depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. These options may be implemented using instructions executed by a processor in the set top device such as processor in . In this example the subscriber is viewing a program on display of a television in . An incoming call is routed to the set top device and the set top device displays incoming call information in section of menu in display . In this example the call information includes an identification of a party and a telephone number. Additionally call handling options are presented to the user in section in menu . Some possible call handling options are to answer the call send the call to voice mail forward the call or cancel the call. This information may be presented in a menu or guide type format while a program is currently being presented to the user. Input from the subscriber as to how the call should be handled may be generated using a remote control device. Based on the subscriber input the set top device may send back the appropriate SIP messages to handle the call.

In this example if the subscriber decides to answer the call the call may be routed to the set top device and the call may be facilitated through the devices connected to the set top device. For example the caller s voice may be presented to the subscriber through speakers in the television and the subscriber may talk to the caller through a microphone located in the remote control. If the subscriber decides to send the call to voice mail the set top device may accept the call and route it to a voice mail system in the set top device or may send a message to the proxy server to redirect the call to a voice mail service for the subscriber. If the subscriber decides to forward the call menu is displayed within display in . In this example the subscriber may forward the call to a home phone or to a mobile phone. Depending on the selection made by the subscriber the set top device will send the appropriate SIP messages to have the call forwarded to the appropriate number. If the subscriber decides to cancel the call the call will not be answered and may be terminated by the set top device.

With reference now to a flowchart of a process for call screening is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The processes in may be implemented in a SIP control component such as SIP control in . The process begins by receiving a request to connect a call to the subscriber step . Thereafter call information and call handling options are presented to the subscriber step . These options may be presented in a number of ways. In the depicted example in and the options are presented in a menu on a display. Alternatively the options may be presented using audible voice prompts played through speaker such as those in a television stereo or set top device. Thereafter subscriber input is received step . This input may be received by depressing buttons on a remote control. In these examples the handling of the call in response to subscriber input results in the set top device sending the appropriate SIP messages to a proxy server. If the subscriber selection is voice mail the call is routed to a voice mail system step with the process terminating thereafter. If the subscriber selection is to terminate the call the call remains unanswered step with the process terminating thereafter.

A selection of a forwarding option results in the display of a menu with different forwarding selections step . This menu may be a menu such as menu in in which different destinations may be selected in forwarding the call. Subscriber input is then received step . Thereafter the call is forwarded to the selected option step with the process terminating thereafter. If the subscriber input is to answer the call the call is answered using the set top device step with the process terminating thereafter.

The set top device of the present invention also may provide channel guide information through a source such as a proxy server using SIP messaging. In this manner channel guides for current programming and future programming may be provided. Further these channel guides may be tailored to the specific preferences of a subscriber. A custom channel guide may be provided to the subscriber at any set top device location at which the subscriber registers. After registering a selected remote control button or command code may be used to initiate the sending of a SIP message to a server requesting channel guide information. Responses from the proxy server in these examples also are sent using SIP messages. Because SIP is session based and not call based any information may be placed into the body of a SIP message. In this example channel guide information is placed in SIP messages.

Turning next to a diagram of a channel guide is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Channel guide in this example is a channel guide that may be displayed using channel guide information returned in SIP messages. This channel guide may be a custom channel guide that can be presented to a subscriber at any set top device at which the subscriber has registered with a server. The subscriber may scroll through channel guide using a remote control device and select a desired channel. In response to such a selection the set top device sends the appropriate control signals such as IR signals to the television to change a channel. Alternatively the set top device selects the appropriate channel from the cable or satellite network.

With reference now to a flowchart of a process for displaying channel guide information is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The processes in may be implemented in a SIP control component such as SIP control in . The process begins by receiving a subscriber request for a channel guide step . In response a set top device sends a request for a channel guide step . In the depicted example the request is in the form of a SIP message sent to a proxy server. Channel guide information is received step and the guide is presented on the screen of the television step . This channel guide information is received in SIP messages. Subscriber input selecting a channel from a channel guide is received step . In response to this input the channel is changed to the selected channel step with the process terminating thereafter.

With reference now to a flowchart of a process for retrieving different types of media streams is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The processes in may be implemented in a SIP control component such as SIP control in . The processes may be used to enable reception of various types of streams such as MPEG2.

The process begins by receiving a subscriber request for content step . This content may be a media stream such as for example a music or a video stream. A music stream may be for example a single song or an entire album. The video stream may be for example a music video or a movie.

A determination is made as to whether sufficient bandwidth is available for the requested content step . If sufficient bandwidth is available a SIP message is sent to a proxy server to initiate receipt of the requested content step . Thereafter the content is received and decoded step . The decoding may occur using different mechanisms such as processor in or a digital signal processor DSP in LAN adapter in . A determination is then made as to whether the content is to be presented immediately step . If the content is to be viewed immediately the content is sent to the appropriate output device step with the process terminating thereafter. Otherwise the content is stored in a storage device in communication with the set top device for later presentation step . The storage device may be for example hard disk in or some other persistent storage device. Then an alert is sent to let the subscriber know that the content has been received step with the process terminating thereafter. This alert may be audio visual or a combination of the two using devices connected to or in communication with the set top device. This alert may be for example a message light on the set top device indicating that a message has been received. A message may be stored identifying the content that has been received for presentation.

With reference again to step if the bandwidth is insufficient to provide the requested media an error message is presented to the subscriber step with the process terminating thereafter. In this manner media streams for media such as music and videos may be obtained by a subscriber through SIP messaging. Further with registration procedures for subscribers provided using SIP a subscriber can have a pay per view type of program charged to the subscriber s account at any set top device that is SIP enabled and provides for registering a subscriber.

Through a SIP enabled set top device pages from Web sites may be received using push technology. Pages that are pushed to the set top device may be displayed to a user using a browser program in the set top device. The browser program provided in the set top device may be any currently available browser such as for example Netscape Navigator. Netscape Navigator is available from Netscape Communications Corporation. For example in a diagram of a Web page pushed to a subscriber is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Page is displayed on a display device such as a television connected to the set top device. In this example a current movies link a current top 40 music link and a new car link are present in Web page . A subscriber may select one of these links to obtain pages associated with these links. The subscriber may select links and close the browser using a remote control device in these examples. Of course other mechanisms may be used to obtain pages. For example graphical icons may be used to identify pages.

With reference now to a flowchart of a process for SIP enabled browsing is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. In a fashion similar to receiving a telephone call SIP messages may be used to indicate a page being pushed to the subscriber. The process begins by receiving a page from the server step . A server may be the proxy server at which the subscriber is registered. A determination is then made as to whether video is being presented to the subscriber step . The process may identify active datastreams being sent to devices to see if a video datastream is being presented. More specifically this identification may be made by determining whether video driver in SIP application in is sending data to a display device. If video is being presented to the subscriber an option to view the page is presented to the subscriber step . If the subscriber selects the option to view the page step a browser is opened step and the page is presented step . Thereafter subscriber input is received step . A determination is then made as to whether a link has been selected step . If a link has been selected a page associated with the link is retrieved step with the process then returning to step . Otherwise a determination is made as to whether the subscriber input is to close the browser step . If the subscriber input is to close the browser the browser is closed step with the process then terminating. Otherwise the process returns to step .

With reference again to step if the subscriber chooses not to view the page the page is stored for later viewing step with the process terminating thereafter. The subscriber may be currently watching a video or may not have time to view the page received from the proxy server. The storing of the page allows the subscriber to view the pushed page at a later time. With reference again to step if the video function is not in use the process also proceeds to step as described above. In this situation the television may be turned off with the subscriber listening to music using the stereo.

Thus the present invention provides a mechanism for providing a SIP end point in a communications device such as SIP application in . The illustrated examples implement a SIP application in a set top device which allows various functions and features to be added to a typical set top device. The present invention increases the capabilities of existing audio and video media devices without replacing them. Further the processes of the present invention allow for customized features to be tailored or directed to a subscriber at any SIP enabled set top device at which the subscriber registers. This directing of services and features is enabled through a registration process present in SIP.

It is important to note that while the present invention has been described in the context of a fully functioning communications device those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the processes of the present invention are capable of being distributed in the form of a computer readable medium of instructions and in a variety of forms. Further the present invention applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media actually used to carry out the distribution. Examples of computer readable media include recordable type media such as floppy disc a hard disk drive a RAM a CD ROM a DVD ROM and transmission type media such as digital and analog communications links wired or wireless communications links using transmission forms such as for example radio frequency and light wave transmissions. The computer readable media may take the form of coded formats that are decoded for actual use in a particular communications device.

The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. For example although the depicted examples used SIP other application layer control protocols may be used in place of SIP. Further the SIP application of the present invention may be implemented in devices other than a set top device as shown in the examples. A computer a television and an adapter for use in a computer are some examples of other devices in which the SIP application may be implemented. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

