---

title: Damped package for piezoelectric devices
abstract: A packaging system for piezoelectric devices is provided that substantially reduces and avoids the deleterious effects of environmental vibrations and shocks with gas or fluid-filled chambers that drastically improve the resonator's ability to withstand unwanted disturbances and decrease or eliminate the attendant frequency shifts. The damped piezoelectric resonator packaging system combines a resonator package, a membrane and gas/fluid-filled chambers that dampen dynamic amplification of the resonator and firmly restrain the resonator within the packaging system. The selection of gas or fluid for the chamber depends upon variables such as the type of waves being propagated and interaction with the piezoelectric substrate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07298067&OS=07298067&RS=07298067
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07298067
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060925
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment by the Government of any royalties thereon.

The invention relates generally to piezoelectric devices and in particular to gas damped packages for piezoelectric devices.

Piezoelectric resonators are well known in the art. Piezoelectric resonators are electronic elements used to make a frequency stable and selectable. Piezoelectric resonators are widely used in various kinds of electronic equipment including communication systems intelligence sensors precision guided munitions cordless telephones broadcast and television satellite telecommunication electronic clocks digital instruments and so on. Piezoelectric resonators can also be used as sensors of temperature pressure and weight. The properties of the crystal resonator depend on the angles of cut. Metal electrodes are disposed upon the crystal wafer which is mounted in a structure designed to hold the crystal wafer. This crystal and holder assembly is called a piezoelectric resonator. Piezoelectric crystal devices are used primarily for precise frequency control and timing. Quartz is the most widely used piezoelectric material. Quartz resonators are manufactured by cutting wafers from the mother crystal along precisely controlled directions with respect to the crystallographic axes. A quartz crystal acts as a stable mechanical resonator which by its piezoelectric behavior and high Q determines the frequency generated in an oscillator circuit. Bulk wave resonators are available in the frequency range from about 1 kHz to 200 MHz. Surface acoustic wave SAW shallow bulk acoustic wave SBAW and surface transverse wave STW devices can be made to operate at well above 1 GHz.

The frequency of a piezoelectric resonator is adversely affected by environmental stresses that deform the resonator including vibration and shock gravitational stress temperature aging thermal hysteresis and so on. Even the acceleration due to gravity produces measurable effects and the frequency of a piezoelectric resonator can shift significantly when turned upside down due to gravity. For example when an oscillator using an AT cut crystal is turned upside down the frequency typically shifts about 4 10and acceleration sensitivity of an AT cut crystal is typically 2 10g. The sensitivity is the same when the crystal is subjected to vibration i.e. the time varying acceleration due to the vibration modulates the frequency at the vibration frequency with amplitude of 2 10g. In the frequency domain the vibration sensitivity manifests itself as vibration induced sidebands that appear at plus and minus the vibration frequency away from the carrier frequency. The acceleration sensitivity of SC cut crystals can be made to be substantially less than that of comparably fabricated AT or BT Cut crystals.

The stresses caused by acceleration vibration and shock are well known to those skilled in the art. Periodic acceleration in the form of vibration can cause frequency modulation in piezoelectric resonators and shock can cause a step frequency change in a piezoelectric resonator due to the resonator s acceleration sensitivity. Shock can also cause a permanent frequency change in a piezoelectric resonator if either the supporting structure or the electrodes are stressed beyond their elastic limits. If during shock the elastic limits in the crystal s support structure or in its electrodes are exceeded the shock can produce a permanent frequency change. Crystal units made with chemically polished plates can withstand shocks in excess of 20 000 g. Such crystals have been successfully fired from howitzers however this ability to withstand shock is not typical. Therefore the stresses caused by acceleration vibration and shock and the consequent negative and deleterious effects on piezoelectric frequency stability have caused prior art piezoelectric resonators to suffer from numerous disadvantages limitations and shortcomings.

Similar difficulties are encountered in undamped mechanical mounting systems where the dynamic amplification at the mechanical resonance frequency of the support structure causes unwanted and undesirable frequency shifts in the piezoelectric resonator. Prior art approaches to the problem of undamped mechanical mounting systems have typically involved large packages allowing for large travel of the support structure and a degradation of specifications near the mechanical resonance frequency. However these techniques have proven unsatisfactory due to a number of disadvantages limitations and shortcomings such as excessive size and weight and the need for improved performance at low mechanical vibration frequencies. Thus there has been a long felt need to overcome the problems caused by the dynamic amplification of an unrestrained or undamped piezoelectric resonator at the mechanical resonance frequency. Until now there are no currently available piezoelectric packaging techniques that satisfactorily damp mechanical and structural resonances of a mounted piezoelectric device.

In order to satisfy the long felt needs for practical piezoelectric packaging techniques that advantageously damp or restrain mechanical and structural resonances the inventor has focused on environmental vibrations in the frequencies up to 2 KHz. This range was selected because most system specifications require the consideration of environmental vibrations at frequencies up to 2 KHz but not above 2 KHz. Using a conventional package the packaged piezoelectric device cannot be designed with any mechanical and structural resonances at or below 2 KHz. In order to assure that the mechanical and structural resonance frequencies are above 2 KHz prior art devices found it necessary to use stiff mounting supports. The problem with stiff mounting supports is that they lead to substantial built in stresses during the fabrication process as a result of either misalignment during fabrication or slight differences in thermal expansion combined with the difference between the fabrication temperature and the operating temperature of the device. With the passage of time the built in stresses are relieved and this stress relief causes the operating frequency of the piezoelectric device to shift. Such shifts are highly undesirable and are commonly referred to as aging of the piezoelectric device. Such built in stresses could be minimized with the use of softer mounting supports. Softer mounting supports tend to minimize built in stresses and eliminate undesirable frequency shifts because the forces generated by the softer mounting supports are less than those generated by stiffer supports.

In order to answer the long felt need for softer and thus more practical piezoelectric packaging techniques for overcoming environmental vibrations while still avoiding the numerous disadvantages limitations and shortcomings caused by stiff packaging arrangements the inventor herein has developed a piezoelectric packaging system to damp the mechanical and structural resonances of a mounted piezoelectric device without suffering from the disadvantages shortcomings and limitations of prior art devices.

The present invention is a packaging system for piezoelectric devices that substantially reduces and avoids the deleterious effects of environmental vibrations and shocks with gas or fluid filled chambers that drastically improve the resonator s ability to withstand unwanted disturbances and decrease or eliminate the attendant frequency shifts. The gas or fluid filled chambers of this invention s piezoelectric packaging system resolve the problems and difficulties that are inherent in prior art undamped mechanical systems such as dynamic amplification at the mechanical resonance frequency of the mounted device without suffering from the disadvantages shortcomings and limitations of prior art devices. The selection of gas or fluid for the chamber depends upon variables such as the type of waves being propagated and interaction with the piezoelectric substrate.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a packaging system for piezoelectric devices that reduces frequency shifting from environmental shocks and vibration.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a damped mounting system for piezoelectric devices that eliminates frequency shifting from environmental shocks and vibration.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a damped mounting system for piezoelectric devices with a fluid filled chamber that eliminates frequency shifting from environmental shocks and vibration without suffering from the disadvantages shortcomings and limitations of prior art stiff package devices.

These and other objects and advantages are provided by damped piezoelectric resonator packaging system of the present invention comprising a resonator package a membrane and gas fluid filled chambers that dampen dynamic amplification of the resonator and firmly restrain the resonator within the packaging system in order to minimize or completely avoid the deleterious effects of unwanted environmental vibrations and shocks without suffering from the disadvantages shortcomings and limitations of prior art stiff package devices.

The various embodiments of the damped piezoelectric resonator packaging devices structures and systems of the present invention comprise a container a resonator a membrane and gas or fluid filled chambers that cooperate to damp unwanted dynamic amplification of the resonator in the chambers after acceleration. The chambers advantageously curtail or reduce dynamic amplification by the gas or fluid to firmly restrain the piezoelectric resonator within the container and either minimize or completely avoid any deleterious frequency shifts caused by environmental vibrations and shocks. The use of a gas damped packaging system in accordance with the present invention allows for the damping of mechanical and structural resonances of the packaged piezoelectric resonator. For the sake of convenience the terms gas damped or fluid damped may be used interchangeably but it must be understood that the designer s choice of gas or fluid for the chambers is dependent upon variables such as the type of waves being propagated and interaction with the piezoelectric substrate.

The amount of damping will determine the amount of dynamic amplification allowed at resonance which in turn will permit the user to adjust the device and systems. Reducing dynamic amplification makes it possible to use a softer supporting structure which can minimize aging and other effects of stress without suffering from the disadvantages shortcomings and limitations of prior art restraint techniques.

By damping the dynamic amplification of the mechanical and structural resonance it is now possible to obtain acceptable device performance despite the occurrence of mechanical and structural resonances in the range of possible environmental vibration frequencies. In this example that would mean mechanical and structural resonances at or below 2 KHz. Another advantage of damping in accordance with this invention is that it allows the design of packaging structures which act as mechanical low pass filters. This type of structure has significant advantages when environmental vibrations are present at frequencies above 2 KHz. The packaging systems can be designed to provide mechanical isolation above the mechanical structural resonance frequency while still providing acceptable device performance at or below the mechanical structural resonance frequency.

Referring now to the drawings depicts a first embodiment of the gas damped resonator packaging device of the present invention comprising a container a membrane with the membrane separating the container into a first chamber and a second chamber . The piezoelectric resonator is fastened to membrane by a means for fastening in such a way that an evacuated region may be formed underneath the resonator . Membrane includes one or more orifices that allow the damping gas to circulate between the first and second chambers and . Container further comprises a suitable valve means for inserting the damping gas represented by box such as a pinch off valve to introduce the damping gas into container and then seal the filled container . The gas or fluid damped resonator packaging device may also be equipped with suitable electrodes on the piezoelectric device as well as such leads interconnects and feed throughs as may be required by the user.

In operation the interior of container is evacuated and then backfilled to a desired pressure with a suitable damping gas such as nitrogen. The container is then sealed to maintain the desired damping gas pressure. The damping gas provides a controlled resistance to the movement of the piezoelectric device . The evacuated region allows for damping of the mechanically induced vibrations while preventing the gas from damping the desired piezoelectrically driven mode which in this embodiment could be a Rayleigh wave or SAW mode. Container may be constructed of any number of materials capable of maintaining the damping gas without leakage and without corrosion due to chemical interactions with the gas.

Variations of the gas damped packaging device include different configurations depending upon the type of piezoelectric device such as Surface Acoustic Waves SAW Surface Transverse Waves STW or Bulk Acoustic Waves BAW . The gas damped resonator packaging device can be appropriate for an SAW device because the acoustic wave propagating in the piezoelectric resonator device would be adversely affected by direct contact with the damping gas . Referring back to if the piezoelectric resonator propagates an SAW the SAW would propagate on the lower surface of piezoelectric resonator that contacts the evacuated region . Other variations include the type of damping gas pumped into the container using a damping fluid instead of gas and the fastening means being either a suitable adhesive or support structure.

The present invention also contemplates a number of other embodiments of the gas damped resonator packaging arrangements for configurations that accommodate particular types of piezoelectric waves that are well known to those skilled in the art. For example illustrate a more detailed version of the damped resonator packaging device in a Surface Acoustic Wave SAW configuration. In the same numerals are employed for like structures. Referring now to there is depicted a cutaway cross sectional view of the gas damped SAW resonator packaging system of the present invention comprising a container a membrane separating the container into a first chamber and a second chamber . The first chamber further comprises a lid upper sidewalls and a valve means such as a pinch off valve forming an integral part of the lid . The SAW piezoelectric resonator further comprises a piezoelectric substrate and an electrode metallization region underneath the piezoelectric substrate . A gap between the electrode metallization region and membrane defines an evacuated region . The SAW piezoelectric resonator is fastened to membrane with an adhesive support . Membrane includes at least one orifice that allows damping gas exchange between first chamber and second chamber . The second chamber further comprises a lower sidewall and lower lid . Both chambers and are filled with a damping gas or in some cases a viscous liquid may be substituted for damping gas .

In operation after the container is evacuated and filled with the proper fluid when the container is subjected to an environmental stress the membrane tries to move the volume of the first or upper chamber increases while the volume of the second or lower chamber decreases. As a result the gas pressure in the upper chamber is decreased while the gas pressure in the lower chamber is increased thereby generating increased resistance in the lower chamber to the movement of the membrane which stabilizes the SAW piezoelectric resonator .

One preferred embodiment of the present invention is a gas damped Surface Transverse Wave STW resonator packaging apparatus in which the piezoelectric resonator is not affected by its contact with the damping gas. This allows the piezoelectric resonator to be bonded directly to the membrane with the STW propagating on an upper surface of the piezoelectric device. Referring now to there is depicted a cutaway cross sectional view of the gas damped STW resonator packaging apparatus comprising a container a membrane separating the container into an first chamber and a second chamber . The first chamber further comprises a lid upper sidewalls and a valve means such as a pinch off valve forming an integral part of the lid . An STW piezoelectric resonator further comprises a piezoelectric substrate and an upper surface . The SAW piezoelectric resonator is stacked on an adhesive layer bonded to the membrane . A means for fastening provides additional restraint for the STW piezoelectric resonator . In this configuration the piezoelectric resonator is bonded directly to membrane by the adhesive layer which affords additional stability against acceleration stresses. Membrane includes at least one orifice that allows damping gas exchange between the first or upper chamber and second or lower chamber . The lower chamber further comprises a lower sidewall and lower lid . Both chambers and are filled with a damping gas . The cooperation of the membrane the upper chamber and lower chamber results in increased resistance in the lower chamber to the movement of the membrane which stabilizes the STW piezoelectric resonator .

Many of the variations that apply to the basic gas damped packaging device also apply to the gas damped STW resonator packaging apparatus including the types of damping gas pumped into the container use of different damping material the different types of fastening means that may be used and so on. This embodiment may also be considered for pure mode BAW resonators such as the AT cut quartz piezoelectric resonator.

Another preferred embodiment of the present invention is a gas damped Bulk Acoustic Wave BAW packaging system in which the active region of the piezoelectric resonator contacts evacuated regions that are enclosed with suitable covers bonded to the piezoelectric substrate. Referring now to there is depicted a cutaway cross sectional view of the gas damped BAW resonator packaging system comprising a container a membrane separating the container into an first chamber and a second chamber . The first chamber further comprises a lid upper sidewalls and a valve means such as a pinch off valve forming an integral part of the lid . A BAW piezoelectric resonator is provided as an integral part of membrane the BAW piezoelectric resonator further comprising a piezoelectric substrate and upper and lower electrode metallization regions A and B. An adhesive binding an upper cover A and lower cover B to the piezoelectric substrate and upper and lower electrode metallization regions A and B as the case may be defines an upper evacuated region A and a lower evacuated region B. Membrane includes one or more orifices that allow damping gas to be exchanged between the first or upper chamber and the second or lower chamber . The lower chamber further comprises a lower sidewall and lower lid . Both chambers and are filled with a damping gas . The cooperation of the membrane the upper chamber and the lower chamber results in increased resistance in the lower chamber to the movement of the membrane which stabilizes BAW piezoelectric resonator .

The gas damped BAW resonator packaging system may be considered appropriate for pure mode thickness shear bulk acoustic wave BAW resonators such as AT cut quartz resonators. In yet another embodiment suitable for arbitrary BAW resonators such as SC cut quartz resonators the active region of piezoelectric substrate can contact the evacuated regions A and B. Many of the variations that apply to the basic gas damped packaging device the gas damped STW resonator packaging apparatus and other embodiments also apply to the gas damped BAW resonator packaging system .

It is to be understood that such other features and modifications to the foregoing detailed description are within the contemplation of the invention which is not limited by this description. As will be further appreciated by those skilled in the art any number of variations and configurations as well any number of combinations of circuits differing materials and dimensions can achieve the results described herein. Accordingly the present invention should not be limited by the foregoing description but only by the appended claims.

