---

title: Method for selecting conductors of an overhead power transmission line
abstract: Methods for selecting a conductor configuration of an overhead power transmission line tension section between two dead-end towers when the conductor configuration includes at least two different types of conductors. Geographical profile information and overhead power transmission line preferences are used along with predetermined selection rules when selecting the appropriate conductor configuration. Some examples of overhead power transmission line preferences include electrical characteristics and conductor sag between towers, while examples of selection rules include conductor costs and conductor tension.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07921005&OS=07921005&RS=07921005
owner: 3M Innovative Properties Company
number: 07921005
owner_city: St. Paul
owner_country: unknown
publication_date: 20061228
---
Overhead electrical power transmission line include support structures or towers insulators and a conductor that is supported by the towers. In some cases long distances may be covered by an overhead power transmission line. An overhead power transmission line typically includes multiple dead end towers multiple tangent suspension towers and conductors. Typically one type of conductor is used in the construction of the entire overhead power transmission line comprising multiple tangent and dead end towers.

In general the invention is directed to methods for selecting a conductor configuration within a transmission line tension section when the conductor configuration includes at least two different types of conductors that are spliced in series where different types of conductors have at least one different parameter between them. A transmission line tension section refers to a portion of the overhead power transmission line that extends from one dead end tower to another dead end tower a transmission line tension section can include multiple tangent towers. The distance between two adjacent towers either tangent also referred to as suspension or dead end towers is referred to as a span. A tension subsection is some portion of the transmission line tension section that includes only one type of conductor. This tension subsection may cover more or less than one span between two adjacent towers and two different tension subsections may meet within a span or at a tower. The conductor configuration defines the multiple tension subsections of the transmission line tension section e.g. how much of the transmission line tension section is made up of each conductor type . As an example two tension subsections that make up a portion of the overhead power transmission line may meet within a span or at the attachment point to a tower. Geographical profile information and overhead power transmission line preferences are used along with predetermined selection rules when selecting the appropriate conductor configuration.

While a user may manually use preferences and equations to determine the useful including the most desirable or best available conductor configuration s of an overhead power transmission line a computing device may more efficiently aid the user throughout the selection process. The user may provide transmission line input to define preferences or requirements of the conductor configuration. Some examples of transmission line preferences include electrical characteristics and conductor sag while examples of selection rules include conductor costs and conductor tension.

In one embodiment the invention is directed to a method for selecting conductors for an overhead power transmission line including identifying at least one desired parameter of the overhead power transmission line to be supported by at least two towers and selecting a conductor configuration of the overhead power transmission line based upon the identified at least one desired parameter and selection rules. The conductor configuration comprises at least a first conductor and a second conductor of different conductor types.

In another embodiment the invention is directed to a system that selects conductors for an overhead power transmission line that includes a processor that identifies at least one desired parameter of the overhead power transmission line to be supported by at least two towers and selects the conductor configuration of the overhead power transmission line based upon the identified at least one desired parameter and selection rules. The conductor configuration comprises at least the first conductor and the second conductor of different conductor types.

In an alternative embodiment the invention is directed to a computer readable medium having instructions that cause a processor to identify at least one desired parameter of the transmission line tension section to be supported by two dead end towers and select the conductor configuration of the overhead power transmission line based upon the identified at least one desired parameter and selection rules. The conductor configuration comprises at least the first conductor and the second conductor of different conductor types.

The invention may provide one or more advantages. For example an overhead power transmission line tension section may be constructed using the advantages available from at least two types of different conductors. This may allow conductors with different sag characteristics or other characteristics e.g. different ampacity to be used together where they are needed in the overhead power transmission line tension section. Moreover these overhead power transmission lines may allow less support structures to be used or a wider variety of terrain to be covered. In addition the overhead power transmission line may utilize relatively higher cost conductors only where needed to reduce the cost of installing a new higher cost overhead conductor.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

An overhead power transmission line broadly encompasses the components between an electricity supply source and an electricity destination. One component of an overhead power transmission line is an electrical conductor. Typically the conductor is a stranded overhead power transfer medium comprised of a plurality of wires twisted together. Other components of an overhead power transmission line include the structures e.g. transmission towers and distribution poles that support the elevated conductors and devices that insulate the conductor from the structures.

Conventionally the overhead power transmission line tension section between two dead ends e.g. terminating structures is typically composed of one type of conductor. However at least two different types of conductors may be joined together to form the entire overhead power transmission line tension section to provide design flexibility and benefits to the overhead power transmission line design between two dead ends or between at least two tangent towers. Conductors of different types are defined herein as one conductor having at least one parameter different than at least one parameter of another conductor. Each conductor that makes up the overhead power transmission line tension section may be referred to as a tension subsection. Each tension subsection may end at towers or in the middle of a span between two adjacent towers. Different types of conductors may be used in one overhead power transmission line tension section when a repair is needed the entire overhead power transmission line needs to be replaced or a new overhead power transmission line needs to be designed. In one example mixing different types of conductors may allow the overhead power transmission line to utilize conductors with lower sag characteristics in spans that require greater overhead clearance and conductors with higher sag characteristics in spans that do not have specific requirements such as overhead clearance. The resulting conductor configuration of the overhead power transmission line tension section may be less expensive or more effective than constructing the entire overhead power transmission line out of the low sag type of conductor. A conductor is defined by the type of materials dimensions electrical properties and mechanical properties.

Selecting the most appropriate conductor configuration for the overhead power transmission line tension section may be a complicated exercise in considering many variables. In this manner computer software programs may assist in meeting the requirements of the overhead power transmission line while fulfilling the desires of the user. The software programs may be simple spreadsheets equation calculators or full computational models that provide graphical representations of potential conductor configurations. These computer programs may also include performance and cost analyses of the potential conductor configurations that are used when selecting the most appropriate overhead power transmission line configuration.

Types of conductors used for overhead power transmission lines may vary widely between overhead power transmission line due to environmental conditions electrical requirements or cost limits. Some conductors may be constructed of steel cores composite e.g. aluminum matrix composite and polymeric composite and Invar i.e. an iron alloy comprising iron nickel and optionally other elements such as chromium titanium and carbon wherein the iron alloy has a thermal expansion coefficient that is less than the linear combination of its constituents cores or any other cores commonly known in the art. Each span or length of the overhead power transmission line tension section between two towers may include a tension subsection that covers the entire span and includes one conductor type or a tension subsection that includes multiple conductor types. Each span may cover a large distance e.g. about 1250 feet about 400 meters but other smaller or larger spans may be included in a designed overhead power transmission line tension section. These span lengths may be determined by the type or types of conductors used in the span. Other span lengths may be for example at least 30 60 90 120 150 180 210 240 270 300 600 900 1200 1500 1800 2100 2400 2700 or even at least about 3 000 meters in length. Tower design may change depending on the length of a given span of the overhead power transmission line tension section.

User may be any individual company power utility or party who has an interest in the design of the overhead power transmission line and the selection of conductors for the overhead power transmission line to increase system performance or decrease the cost of the system. In one embodiment user is an employee of a manufacturing company that produces conductors suitable for overhead power transmission line applications. In this embodiment user may use conductor selection system to identify possible conductor configurations for the overhead power transmission line and select the useful including the most desirable or best conductor configuration s for the specific system being designed. The useful including the most desirable or best system s may be determined as such according to user requests or preferences such as overhead power transmission line performance or total overhead power transmission line cost. In another embodiment user is a power company utility or other entity that makes decisions or aids in making decisions regarding power lines. In such an embodiment user may use conductor selection system to understand which types of conductors could be used given various line preferences and geographical profiles. In another embodiment user is a third party that sells or assists in selling conductors.

Computing device typically includes hardware not all shown in that may include at least one processor memory e.g. random access memory a device for reading computer readable media not shown and user interface that may include input output devices such as a display a keyboard and a pointing device. Computing device may be for example a workstation a notebook computer a personal digital assistant PDA a multimedia device a network server a mainframe or any other general purpose or application specific computing device. Although not shown computing device may also include other software firmware or combinations thereof such as an operating system and other application software. Computing device may read executable software instructions from a computer readable medium such as a hard drive a CD ROM or a computer memory or may receive instructions from another source logically connected to computer such as another networked computer or server. Moreover conductor selection system may be distributed to execute on multiple computers and may be used remotely by user and accessible via a web browser or other interface.

In some embodiments conductor selection system may include more than one computing device network connections network servers data repository modeling environments or any other electronic device that may be beneficial to the performance and operation of the conductor selection system. In other embodiments conductor selection system may require some calculations or decisions to be performed by user . These manual portions of conductor selection system may be required due to user preferences or special case scenarios that cannot be handled by the conductor selection system.

User interface may take any form of interface that provides input output capabilities. In one embodiment the user interface is a graphical user interface GUI and may comprise for example various windows control bars menus switches radio buttons or other mechanisms that facilitate presentation and reception of data and interaction with user . One common exemplary user interface is provided by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. sold under the trade designation WINDOWS OPERATING SYSTEM. Although described in various embodiments with respect to direct user interaction user may also remotely access conductor selection system via a client device. For example user interface may be a web interface presented to a remote client device executing a web browser or other suitable networking software. Moreover although described with respect to user user interface may be invoked by a software agent or other computing device remote to computer device . Additionally in one embodiment conductor selection system may be invoked and utilized without a GUI via an application programming interface API provided by the computing device .

In other embodiments user interface may provide 2D or 3D data for the geographical site to which the conductors are to be installed so as to allow user to view possible conductor configurations of the overhead power transmission line. User interface may also visualize the geographic profile and towers structures used to support the overhead power transmission line. The geographic profile describes a geographic region to which the overhead power transmission line is to be installed. From this visualization user may be able to identify conductor sag between towers and adjust the overhead power transmission line parameters e.g. the transmission line input used to create the conductor configuration . User interface may additionally allow user to view the effect of environmental forces on the overhead power transmission line before user selects the conductor configuration to be used as the overhead power transmission line.

In some embodiments user interface may include more user friendly input devices that user may use to interact with conductor selection system . For example user interface may provide a touch screen to receive user touch directly when inputting conductor preferences or adjusting tower placement. Alternatively user interface may include a touch pad or drawing pad to receive user input. In cases when at least two users are concurrently using conductor selection system from remote computing devices user interface may provide separate interfaces viewable by each user or a common interface in which control of the user interface may be exchanged between each user. In this manner complex projects may be completed in less time and with greater success. In particular this process may be useful in communication between the manufacturer and a client when designing the overhead power transmission line or between the manufacturer and installation site workers to troubleshoot problems in the field.

Processor controls the flow of data between user interface and memory . In some embodiments processor may separately communicate with the different elements of memory . Processor retrieves instructions from model software which may define possible conductor configurations for the overhead power transmission line based upon the preferences of the overhead power transmission line. Model software utilizes data from several repositories in order to compute possible conductor configurations. These repositories include geographic profiles and conductor data . In addition rules engine provides instructions to model software that govern the possible conductor configurations according to selection rules . The data contained in geographic profiles conductor data and selection rules may be pre existing in memory or provided by user .

It should be mentioned that the arrangement of components of conductor selection system is only illustrative and other arrangements or components may be provided to attain the same result as the example provided herein. For example software modules may be greater in number and be accessed when necessary or data may be contained within separate memories such as hard disks optical media or networked storage devices.

Data defining conductors or suitable overhead power transmission line may include for example size stranding core fraction diameter resistivity strength a compressive stress parameter for the conductor s outer strands compressive strain associated stress strain curves ruling span actual span incline and a number of ampacity conditions including ambient temperature wind velocity wind angle emissivity solar absorption conductor elevation conductor direction latitude total solar flux sun time time of day for solar radiation calculations and atmosphere. Data defining overhead power transmission line preferences may be derived from the data describing the possible conductors or may be a subset of the data describing the overhead power transmission line. For example data defining overhead power transmission line preferences may include maximum conductor diameter maximum actual span sag minimum emergency ampacity maximum horizontal tension overall maximum tension overall maximum vertical tension overall maximum horizontal tension at install transverse tension and maximum tension at install. Transverse tension is the force imposed on a conductor usually by wind transverse to the overhead power transmission line direction.

Additionally various overhead power transmission line preferences may be specified as associated with at least one environmental scenario. An environmental scenario is data that defines an environmental condition that the overhead power transmission line may be exposed to in the operation in the field. Often these scenarios represent weather extremes the overhead power transmission line may encounter as well as the environmental conditions at the time of installation. Environmental scenarios are defined by data such as ambient temperature thickness of ice buildup wind pressure and National Electrical Safety Code overload factor K. Each environmental scenario then may have with it its own set of overhead power transmission line preferences. For example an environmental scenario may describe blizzard conditions with heavy ice buildup and wind. Line preferences in terms of maximum horizontal tension maximum tension and maximum vertical tension may be specifically associated with this environmental scenario. These environmental scenarios may eliminate certain conductor configurations from being acceptable to the overhead power transmission line design.

Data stored within memory and its constituent databases or repositories may be implemented in a variety of forms including data storage files computer memory or at least one database management system DBMS executing on at least one database server. The database management system may be a relational RDBMS hierarchical HDBMS multidimensional MDBMS object oriented ODBMS or OODBMS or object relational ORDBMS database management system. Data could for example be stored within a single relational database such as SQL Server from Microsoft Corporation. In one embodiment the data is a flat file loaded into memory of computing device . In another embodiment the data and particularly conductor data is loaded into memory of computing device .

Overhead power transmission line design specifically the choice of a single type of conductor to carry electrical current is typically facilitated with two distinct sets of known calculations. In some cases overhead power transmission line design may be performed by at least one engineer or system designer. In other cases the system design is facilitated by computer software programs. Initially a first computer program utilizes a first set of calculations to determine ampacity of a given conductor. Ampacity is a calculation of current carrying capacity for a conductor given conductor temperature and given a set of weather conditions.

Stress strain and sag tension calculations may be performed with model software to calculate sag of each span of the conductor configuration given the type of conductor s physical properties and stress strain behavior stored as conductor data . In one embodiment stress strain and sag tension calculations utilize a method described in Overhead Conductor Manual Southwire Company 1994 the disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference. Chen S. Z. Black W. A. Loard H. W. Jr. High Temperature Sag Model for Overhead Conductors IEEE Transaction on Power Delivery Vol. 17 No. 4 October 2002 describes a method combining ampacity and line sag calculations and has a disclosure that is hereby incorporated by reference. In some embodiments stress strain and sag and tension limitations may be regulated through rules engine according to overhead power transmission line limits tower limits or other limiting factors.

Some conventional software programs perform only one of these two calculations while others perform both. Examples of such conventional software programs include that marketed by ACA Conductor Accessories Spartanburg S.C. under the trade designation SAG10 or that marketed by Power Line Systems Inc. of Madison Wis. under the trade designation PLS CADD or that marketed by Pondera Engineers Spokane Wash. under the trade designation TL PRO DESIGN STUDIO. 

Conductor data in one embodiment holds data defining each type of conductor and operating parameters for the types of conductors. Some conductors may be constructed for example of steel cores composite e.g. aluminum matrix composite and polymeric composite cores Invar cores or any other cores commonly known in the art. Specific types of conductors may be constructed of aluminum matrix composite polymeric composite aluminum alloys ceramics boron graphite carbon titanium tungsten and shape memory alloys. An example of a polymeric composite is aramid and poly p phenylene 2 6 benzobisoxazole . In addition a conductor may be manufactured of any combination of these or other materials commonly known in the art. The conductor also includes stranded wires around the core which are commonly made of an aluminum or copper alloy. However conductor types referred to herein are generally referred to as the types of conductor cores within the conductor. A conductor having an aluminum matrix composite core is sometimes referred to as aluminum conductor composite reinforced ACCR .

Other exemplary overhead power transmission line conductors for tension subsections include aluminum conductor steel reinforced ACSR thermal resistant aluminum alloy conductor steel reinforced TACSR ultra thermal resistant aluminum alloy conductor steel reinforced ZTACSR ultra thermal resistant aluminum alloy conductor Invar reinforced ZTACIR heat resistant aluminum alloys ZTAL ultra thermal resistant aluminum alloy conductor steel reinforced ZTACSR extra thermal resistant aluminum alloy conductor steel reinforced XTACSR extra thermal resistant aluminum alloy conductor Invar reinforced XTACIR gap type ultra thermal resistant aluminum alloy steel reinforced GZTACSR high strength thermal resistant aluminum alloy conductor steel reinforced KTACSR all aluminum conductor AAC all aluminum alloy conductor AAAC aluminum conductor composite core ACCC and aluminum conductor steel supported ACSS . Additional types of conductors types of materials used for conductors methods for manufacturing tension subsections methods of connecting tension subsections types of overhead power transmission lines and other related examples can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 7 547 843 Deve et al. and U.S. Pat. Application Pub. No. 2008 0156524 A1 Jachim et al. the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

In particular conductor data contains the exemplary data noted in Table 1 for each conductor that conductor selection system will evaluate 

Conductor data in one embodiment may also contain stress strain information for every stress strain curve cross referenced to each type of conductor. For example using the exemplary data in Table 1 above the conductor type ACCR has stress strain curve of 3477. This number is used to look up further information corresponding to the stress strain information. The stress strain information generally contains a list of polynomials core fractions and thermal elongation properties for a stress strain curve. Stress strain curve information is available from conductor manufacturers and is usually determined via a well known process an implementation of which is described in Aluminum Association Guide Rev. 1999 A Method of Stress Strain Testing of Aluminum Conductors and ACSR and A Method for Determining the Long Time Creep of Aluminum Conductors in Overhead Line. The particular information contained in the stress strain database in one exemplary embodiment is as represented in Table 2 below 

Ai0 is the zeroth order coefficient to the aluminum stress strain curve for initial loading i.e. A stands for aluminum i stands for initial loading and 0 stands for zeroth order . Likewise Rf3 is the third order coefficient for the reinforcing core for final loading.

In one embodiment described curves from Table 2 above will be used by model software to solve a nested set of 4th order polynomials for each type of conductor and environmental condition to create potential conductor configurations. One nonlinear solution process is described in Overhead Conductor Manual Southwire Company 1994 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. In alternative embodiments the stress strain information such as shown in Table 2 above may be stored in a separate repository from conductor data .

User may provide preferences as to how many different conductor configurations conductor selection system creates. For example user may specify that the five most optimal conductor configurations are presented via user interface . Alternatively user may request that the five least expensive options may be presented. From this limited set of conductor configurations user may use judgment in selecting the useful including the most desirable or best conductor configuration s for the overhead power transmission line. User may also be able to select one of the provided conductor configurations and request that conductor selection system provide more conductor configurations in close relation to the selected conductor configuration. In other embodiments conductor selection system may be configured such that only the best conductor configuration as determined by the conductor selection system is presented to user . This method may be beneficial when conductor selection system is used by an inexperienced user.

Conductor selection system may include an error handling mechanism for identifying discontinuous data or scenarios in which no feasible conductor configurations can be created. These instances may occur when the geographic profile information or overhead power transmission line input defines limitations on the overhead power transmission line that cannot be satisfied. The data may be prescreened for these inconsistencies or the error messages may be provided when the data is processed and no possible conductor configurations can be provided. In alternative embodiments warning messages may be provided when possible problems occur due to overhead power transmission line changes. These changes such as aging or environmental extremes could cause problems with the multiple types of conductors within the conductor configurations.

During operation of conductor selection system user is then presented with user interface facilitating the entry of information defining preferred overhead power transmission line parameters. Common inputs in user interface may define overhead power transmission line parameters ruling span actual span and incline between each tower of the overhead power transmission line. The ruling span is the characteristic span over the length of the overhead power transmission line. The ruling span for an overhead power transmission line tension section can be calculated by the following equation 

Actual span is a physical span within an overhead power transmission line tension section for which the ruling span was calculated. Sag values are calculated based on the actual span. Incline an optional parameter is used if the actual span is not level. Incline is in one embodiment measured from a first end to a second end for each overhead power transmission line tension section between two dead ends. In this manner each overhead power transmission line tension section should be calculated in the same manner to provide continuous data.

In some cases the optimal or best configuration of conductors that conductor selection system suggests may not be the most desirable solution. Conductor selection system may also calculate and save every conductor in the database that met the overhead power transmission line preferences of user ranked by design goal. In one embodiment these alternatives may be reviewed by user through interaction with user interface .

Evaluation priorities in one embodiment are selected by user from a pre defined pull down menu. These priorities may be predetermined in rules or input into rules for the overhead power transmission line being designed. In one example the conductors are evaluated and presented in a manner such that ampacity is the most important constraint sag is the second most important and conductor area is the third more important. Possible cases are specified in Table 3 below as examples 

The design goals or priorities specified by user determine the case. Each case defines the manner in which model software will evaluate conductors. Each case invokes a common set of subroutines but does so in different orders and frequencies. Many different evaluation techniques may be employed depending upon the design goal of each overhead power transmission line case. These evaluation techniques may be preset within model software or user configured in order to correctly evaluate different conductor configurations of the overhead power transmission line.

In addition some cases may include more ordered steps or preferences to determine possible conductor configurations. Additional or replacement parameters may include overhead power transmission line cost installation time overhead power transmission line product life or other parameters that are not associated with physical properties of the conductor configuration selected. These non physical preferences in some cases may be paramount to the desired selection of a conductor configuration within configurations that satisfy physical and performance preferences. Rules engine may utilize preferences stored rules such that conductor selection system may be able to provide user with the most likely desired conductor configuration. However user interface may allow user to override the rules engine to select the desired conductor configuration.

In other embodiments conductor selection system may present a preliminary list of conductor configurations based upon a limited number of calculations and preferences. User then interacts with user interface to select a smaller number of conductor configurations for processor to consider using the full parameters of model software . Therefore user may bypass long wait times for conductor selection system to process the complete parameters for conductor configurations that the user is not interested in pursuing.

Alternatively conductor selection system may go through an iterative process that guides user through the conductor selection process in multiple steps. In this manner each step may narrow the number of conductor configurations according to the preferences of user . The step order may be pre determined by rules engine or customized by user . Conductor selection system may allow user to return to previous steps if a series of selections results in no conductor configurations that meet specifications and preferences of the user. Model software may calculate possible conductor configurations ahead of each step of user and prevent the user from continuing forward when no conductor configurations will be possible.

An iterative process by conductor selection system may be similar to a decision tree type of process where each step proceeds to another step with more selections possible to further define the conductor configuration. Some steps may have only one possible selection while other steps may have at least ten selections for user . In some embodiments user may request conductor selection system to automatically make the next selection based upon rules or the number of possible conductor configurations that will be available after the selection.

Conductor selection system may be configured differently in embodiments other than described herein and still utilize the general method of selecting conductor configurations for an overhead power transmission line. Conductor selection system may employ more or less software programs data repositories or processing hardware in order to assist user in selecting the most appropriate conductor configuration. As described herein conductor selection system may be completely automated to provide one conductor configuration to user or allow the user control over each step of the selection process. In any case conductor selection system may allow user to efficiently find the useful including the most desirable or best conductor configuration s for an overhead power transmission line over existing or newly designed towers in an overhead power transmission line.

User next selects design parameters for the overhead power transmission line that limits the possible conductor configurations . Some design parameters may already be pre determined but may be revised by user . User then requests conductor selection system to provide possible conductor configurations according to the design parameters . If the results are not acceptable to user the user selects new design parameters . If the results are acceptable user selects the desired conductor configuration out of the configurations provided by system .

Conductor selection system next saves the selected conductor configuration for later retrieval by user or another user involved in the design production or installation of the overhead power transmission line defined by the conductor configuration . User may then use the selected conductor configuration to prepare the materials schedule and other needs in order to install the overhead power transmission line and complete the overhead power transmission line .

In other embodiments the conductor selection system may include more steps when user invokes a more step by step or iterative selection process as described in . In these cases the method may involve more steps. Alternatively the process may change slightly depending upon who user is. For example if user is a customer of the manufacturer the user may need to provide additional information and be restricted from changing some pre defined parameters for the overhead power transmission line. Conversely if user is an engineer for the manufacturer the user may have complete control over the aspects of conductor selection system .

If there is a special span of the overhead power transmission line tension section that needs specific consideration user enters the location of the span in the overhead power transmission line tension section and the preferences or parameters of the particular span . These spans of the overhead power transmission line tension section may be over a river over a building under airplane traffic or near any other type of circumstance. If there are no special spans user enters the tower load data for the existing or new towers that will support the overhead power transmission line tension section . In some embodiments user may only need to enter the type of towers that will be used and the actual tower load data may be retrieved by processor from data or a different networked repository. Once all the data is entered user may submit the entered design parameters to conductor selection system .

In other embodiments the method of may be arranged in a different manner as the sequence of entered parameters may not matter to the selection of possible conductor configurations. In addition more or less design parameters may be selected by user depending on the configuration of conductor selection system .

In the example of consecutive spans of overhead power transmission line tension section are made of alternative types of conductors. Conductors and are steel reinforced conductors that are slightly heavier than conductors and . Throughout the length of overhead power transmission line tension section these conductors alternate between each tower in overhead power transmission line .

Conductors and are constructed of steel and are heavier than conductors and which are constructed of a lighter composite material such as ACCR described above. Therefore sag Sof low sag conductors and is smaller than sag Sof conductors and .

The conductor configuration of overhead power transmission line tension section may be beneficial because low sag and relatively higher cost conductors and may reduce the energy loss between the two dead ends of overhead power transmission line without having to use the more expensive conductors and throughout the entire overhead power transmission line tension section . In addition low sag conductors and may be positioned in system above structures or areas that require greater clearance over geographic profile .

The dead end towers structures allow for generally no longitudinal movement of the conductor. In between the dead end structures suspension structures support the conductor vertically. The conductor is connected to the suspension tower via an insulator string typically strung together insulated ceramic discs . One end of the insulator string is attached to the suspension tower and the other end of the insulator string is attached to the conductor. This latter attachment is referred to as the conductor attachment point. As changes in tension occur in the conductor the insulator string pivoting around the suspension tower attachment site will pull on the conductor and longitudinally move the conductor attachment point to balance the ensuing forces. This movement is referred to as insulator swing. Changes in conductor tension between spans on a suspension tower are normally equalized by insulator swing. The insulator swings from the lower tension span towards the higher tension span to equalize the tension between spans. This causes the tension to drop in the higher tension span increasing sag in that span. One example of this is that the center of balance of the overhead power transmission line tension section at the tower resides at the center of the tower instead of to one side of the tower. With other types of conductors Sand Smay be very similar in cases where the weight of each conductor is almost equivalent. While overhead power transmission line tension section includes alternating types of conductors the configuration may alternatively include conductor types that alternative every at least two spans or partial spans covered by the conductor in the respective tension subsection. Conductor selection system provides the information and tools to user to investigate all possible conductor configurations with the design parameters and preferences that the user provides.

In other embodiments span distance W may be customized for each tension subsection that is used within overhead power transmission line tension section . For example W between towers and may be less than W between towers and . Low sag conductor may allow the span distance W between towers and to be increased because of the reduced weight that the towers need to support. In this case fewer towers may be needed to support overhead power transmission line tension section . The fewer towers may reduce installation and maintenance costs without investing in conductors throughout the entire overhead power transmission line tension section . Fewer towers may also reduce the environmental impact and improve aesthetics of the entire overhead power transmission line with fewer towers in residential areas. These possibilities may be presented to user based upon the preferences provided to conductor selection system . As mentioned previously each span distance W may be determined with conductors tension subsections of the overhead power transmission line tension section that extend beyond one span.

Conductors and are heavy steel conductors that are inexpensive and aid in supporting the span of conductor . Conductor is constructed of the lighter weight ACCR composite in order to reduce the tension on towers and while minimizing the height of sag S. Allowing the insulators to swing away from center in overhead power transmission line tension section may allow a user to keep the desired or required clearance over river while using towers and with smaller height H. System may take less time to install while reducing installation and maintenance costs because multiple types of conductors were used in overhead power transmission line tension section .

In other embodiments river may be another body of water a multi lane highway a canyon or any other large span distance W that must be covered. Traditional overhead power transmission line tension sections that can only utilize one type of conductor with towers and having height H may need to be higher to cover span distance W or in some cases overhead power transmission line tension section may not be able to be built over a large span distance. With increasing energy demand and aging power grid infrastructure overhead power transmission line tension section that utilizes more than one type of conductor may reduce the costs associated with installing and maintaining overhead power transmission lines while allowing greater flexibility in designing overhead power transmission line solutions.

Similar to user may be any individual company power utility or party who has an interest in the design of the overhead power transmission line and the selection of conductors for the overhead power transmission line to increase system performance or decrease the cost of the system. User will need a password biometric or other authentication key to pass through the security measures of at least one of workstation web server and conductor selection system . In some embodiments there may be levels of users which separate novice advanced and administrative type users.

Particularly shows a client web server application server environment where the user is a customer potential customer or other third party that wishes to evaluate conductors. User interacts with workstation e.g. a computing device and connect to a web server via network which could be the Internet. Web server could be one such as that marketed by Microsoft Corporation under the trade designation INTERNET INFORMATION SERVER. It could also be a web server such as that marketed by Apache Foundation under the trade designation APACHE WEB SERVER. In this example web server provides user interface components that facilitate gathering and presenting information similar to that as was described with respect to user interface . Web server may be attached via a network such as network to computing device which hosts an implementation of conductor selection system . In another embodiment web server and computing device are on the same system. In another embodiment repositories and are on separate servers or computing devices attached to computing device via network or another similar network.

In the example shown system enables multiple parties to contribute to the design and installation of an overhead power transmission line. Since overhead power transmission lines may be large projects that may include private and government entities allowing access to conductor selection system may be beneficial to efficient design and implementation of overhead power transmission lines. In addition third party manufactures of other conductors conductor components structures insulators and other equipment may have some type of access to conductor selection system in order to identify incompatibilities in components and modify current components to allow further design possibilities.

While system allows conductor selection system to be utilized over a network all functions are similar to those of system as described above. In addition system may be able to be networked with other databases or data repositories to include the most updated data for conductors and all other types of components of the overhead power transmission line. This data may include survey data for geographical profiles . For example user may enter the coordinates of existing towers or preferred towers and conductor selection system for retrieval of elevation data for all tower locations and compilation of all this data for use by model software in generating possible conductor configurations.

Alternative arrangements of components in system are contemplated in enabling the features of conductor selection system . For example more or less networks computing devices or data repositories may be implemented to achieve the advantages described herein.

User next selects design parameters for the overhead power transmission line that limit the possible conductor configurations . Some design parameters may already be pre determined but may be revised by user if the user has authority to do so. User then requests conductor selection system to provide possible conductor configurations according to the design parameters . If the results are not acceptable to user the user selects new design parameters . If the results are acceptable user selects the desired conductor configuration out of the configurations provided by system .

User next submits the selected conductor configuration to be saved for later retrieval by user or another user involved in the design production or installation of the overhead power transmission line defined by the conductor configuration to include the multiple tension subsections of each conductor . User may then use the selected conductor configuration to prepare the materials schedule and other needs in order to install the overhead power transmission line and complete the overhead power transmission line.

In other embodiments the conductor selection system may include more steps when user invokes a more step by step or iterative selection process as described in according to system of . In these cases the method may involve more steps. Alternatively the process may change slightly depending upon who user is. For example if user is a customer of the manufacturer the user may need to provide additional information and be restricted from changing some pre defined parameters for the overhead power transmission line. Conversely if user is an engineer for the manufacturer the user may have complete control over the aspects of conductor selection system .

Conductor has substantially continuous e.g. the length is relatively infinite when compared to the diameter core wires and is referred to as an aluminum conductor composite reinforced ACCR overhead power transmission conductor. Typically the core wires comprise crystalline ceramics i.e. exhibits a discernible X ray powder diffraction pattern and or a mixture of crystalline ceramic and glass i.e. a fiber may contain both crystalline ceramic and glass phases although the wires may also comprise glass. In some embodiments fiber is at least 50 in some embodiments at least 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 99 or even 100 percent by weight crystalline. Examples of suitable crystalline ceramic oxide fibers include refractory fibers such as alumina fibers aluminosilicate fibers aluminoborate fibers aluminoborosilicate fibers zirconia silica fibers and combinations thereof. In some embodiments of the cores of the ACCR overhead power transmission conductors it is desirable for the fibers to comprise at least 40 in some embodiments at least 50 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 99 or even 100 percent by volume AlO based on the total volume of the fiber. In other embodiments it is desirable for wires to comprise in a range from 40 to 70 in some embodiments in a range from 55 to 70 or even 55 to 65 percent by volume AlO based on the total volume of the fiber.

In some embodiments exemplary glass fibers are available for example from Corning Glass Corning N.Y. Typically the continuous glass fibers have an average fiber diameter in a range from about 3 micrometers to about 19 micrometers. In some embodiments the glass fibers have an average tensile strength of at least 3 GPa 4 GPa and or even at least 5 GPa. In some embodiments the glass fibers have a modulus in a range from about 60 GPa to 95 GPa or about 60 GPa to about 90 GPa.

In other embodiments alumina fibers are described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 4 954 462 Wood et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 185 299 Wood et al. . In some embodiments the alumina fibers are polycrystalline alpha alumina fibers and comprise on a theoretical oxide basis greater than 99 percent by weight AlOand 0.2 0.5 percent by weight SiO based on the total weight of the alumina fibers. In another aspect some desirable polycrystalline alpha alumina fibers comprise alpha alumina having an average grain size of less than 1 micrometer or even in some embodiments less than 0.5 micrometer . In another aspect in some embodiments polycrystalline alpha alumina fibers have an average tensile strength of at least 1.6 GPa in some embodiments at least 2.1 GPa or even at least 2.8 GPa as determined according to the tensile strength test described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 460 597 McCullough et al. . Exemplary alpha alumina fibers are marketed under the trade designation NEXTEL 610 by 3M Company St. Paul Minn.

Aluminosilicate fibers are described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 4 047 965 Karst et al . Exemplary aluminosilicate fibers are marketed under the trade designations NEXTEL 440 NEXTEL 550 and NEXTEL 720 by 3M Company of St. Paul Minn. Aluminumborate and aluminoborosilicate fibers are described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 3 795 524 Sowman . Exemplary aluminoborosilicate fibers are marketed under the trade designation NEXTEL 312 by 3M Company. Zirconia silica fibers are described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 3 709 706 Sowman .

Typically the continuous ceramic fibers have an average fiber diameter of at least about 5 micrometers more typically in a range from about 5 micrometers to about 20 micrometers and in some embodiments in a range from about 5 micrometers to about 15 micrometers.

In addition the ceramic fibers are typically produced in tows. Tows are known in the fiber art and typically include a plurality of individual generally untwisted fibers typically at least 100 fibers more typically at least 400 fibers . In some embodiments tows comprise at least 780 individual fibers per tow and in some cases at least 2600 individual fibers per tow or at least 5200 individual fibers per tow. Tows of various ceramic fibers are available in a variety of lengths including 300 meters 500 meters 750 meters 1000 meters 1500 meters and longer. The fibers may have a cross sectional shape that is circular elliptical or dogbone.

Alternatively exemplary boron fibers are commercially available for example from Textron Specialty Fibers Inc. of Lowell Mass. Typically such fibers have a length on the order of at least 50 meters and may even have lengths on the order of kilometers or more. Typically the continuous boron fibers have an average fiber diameter in a range from about 80 micrometers to about 200 micrometers. More typically the average fiber diameter is no greater than 150 micrometers most typically in a range from 95 micrometers to 145 micrometers. In some embodiments the boron fibers have an average tensile strength of at least 3 GPa and or even at least 3.5 GPa. In some embodiments the boron fibers have a modulus in a range from about 350 GPa to about 450 GPa or even in a range from about 350 GPa to about 400 GPa.

Further exemplary silicon carbide fibers are marketed for example by COI Ceramics of San Diego Calif. under the trade designation NICALON in tows of 500 fibers from Ube Industries of Japan under the trade designation TYRANNO and from Dow Corning of Midland Mich. under the trade designation SYLRAMIC .

Exemplary silicon carbide monofilament fibers are marketed for example by Specialty Materials Inc. Lowell Mass. under the trade designation SCS 9 SCS 6 and Ultra SCS .

Exemplary aluminum metals for matrix are highly pure e.g. greater than 99.95 elemental aluminum or alloys of pure aluminum with other elements such as copper. Typically the aluminum matrix material is selected such that the matrix material does not significantly chemically react with the fiber i.e. is relatively chemically inert with respect to fiber material for example to eliminate the need to provide a protective coating on the fiber exterior.

In some embodiments the aluminum matrix comprises at least 98 percent by weight aluminum at least 99 percent by weight aluminum greater than 99.9 percent by weight aluminum or even greater than 99.95 percent by weight aluminum. Exemplary aluminum alloys of aluminum and copper comprise at least 98 percent by weight aluminum and up to 2 percent by weight copper. In some embodiments useful aluminum alloys are 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 and or 8000 series aluminum alloys Aluminum Association designations . Although higher purity aluminum tends to be desirable for making higher tensile strength wires less pure forms of metals are also useful.

Suitable aluminum is available for example under the trade designation SUPER PURE ALUMINUM 99.99 Al from Alcoa of Pittsburgh Pa. Aluminum alloys e.g. Al 2 by weight Cu 0.03 by weight impurities can be obtained for example from Belmont Metals New York N.Y.

The composite cores typically comprise at least 15 percent by volume in some embodiments at least 20 25 30 35 40 45 or even 50 percent by volume of the fibers based on the total combined volume of the fibers and aluminum matrix material. More typically the composite cores and wires comprise in the range from 40 to 75 in some embodiments 45 to 70 percent by volume of the fibers based on the total combined volume of the fibers and aluminum matrix material.

Typically the average diameter of the core is in a range from about 1 mm to about 15 mm. In some embodiments the average diameter of core desirable is less than 1 mm at least 2 mm or even up to about 3 mm. Typically the average diameter of the composite wire is in a range from about 1 mm to 12 mm 1 mm to 10 mm 1 to 8 mm or even 1 mm to 4 mm. In some embodiments the average diameter of composite wire desirable is at least 1 mm at least 1.5 mm 2 mm 3 mm 4 mm 5 mm 6 mm 7 mm 8 mm 9 mm 10 mm 11 mm or even at least 12 mm.

Techniques for making aluminum composite wires are known in the art. For example continuous metal matrix composite wire can be made by continuous metal matrix infiltration processes. One suitable process is described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 485 796 Carpenter et al. the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Other processing routes for continuous fiber reinforced metal matrix composites are for example discussed in ASM Handbook Vol. 21 Composites pp. 584 588 ASM International Metals Park Ohio published in 2001 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Overhead power transmission conductor sections having cores comprising a steel wire s are commercially available for example from Southwire Carrollton Ga. Typically the steel wires of the core are a medium to high strength steel with a nominal tensile strength range of 170 ksi to 280 ksi 1172 MPa to 1931 MPa and usually are coated to impart good corrosion resistance. Common coating materials include zinc also known as galvanized or zinc alloy with 5 aluminum mischmetal. However other coating materials may also be employed during manufacture.

Cables or conductors utilized in the present invention are typically stranded. A stranded cable typically includes a central wire and a first layer of wires helically stranded around the central wire. Cable stranding is a process in which individual strands of wire are combined in a helical arrangement to produce a finished cable see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 171 942 Powers and 5 554 826 Gentry . The resulting helically stranded wire rope provides far greater flexibility than would be available from a solid rod of equivalent cross sectional area. The helical arrangement is also beneficial because the stranded cable maintains its overall round cross sectional shape when the cable is subject to bending in handling installation and use. Helically wound cables may include as few as 7 individual strands to more common constructions containing 50 or more strands.

Various embodiments of the invention have been described. However one skilled in the art will recognize that various modifications may be made to the described embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention. For example the invention may be embodied as a computer readable medium that includes instructions to cause a processor to perform any of the methods described herein. These and other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

