---

title: Radio frequency identification tag
abstract: Radio frequency identification (RFID) includes far-field systems associated with an RFID interrogator and an RFID tag. The RFID interrogator produces continuous wave (CW) unmodulated signals selected from frequencies comprising a predetermined frequency band. The RFID tag includes reception and transmission antenna circuits, a signal processor, and an oscillator. The reception antenna circuit receives the reception signals from the RFID interrogator. The signal processor determines whether the reception signals correspond to a plurality of tag identification frequencies as a correlation. The signal processor also produces responsive signals in response to the correlation. The oscillator supplies a carrier frequency. The transmission antenna circuit combines the carrier signal with the response signals to produce transmit signals, and then dispatches the transmit signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07388497&OS=07388497&RS=07388497
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07388497
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20060201
---
The invention is a Continuation in Part claims priority to and incorporates by reference in its entirety U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 666 823 filed Sep. 17 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 023 342 titled Continuous Wave CW Fixed Multiple Frequency Triggered Radio Frequency Identification RFID Tag and System and Method Employing Same to Blaise L. Corbett and Michael L. Workman published as U.S. Patent Application Publication 2005 0057368 on Mar. 17 2005 and assigned Navy Case 84382.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

Radio frequency identification RFID is becoming an important identification technology in applications such as inventory management security access personnel identification factory automation automotive toll debiting and vehicle identification to name just a few. An RFID system utilizes an RFID transmitter receiver interrogation unit usually referred to as a base station or interrogator to query an RFID transponder or tag. When located within an operational distance from the interrogation unit the RFID tag detects the interrogating signal and transmits a response signal containing encoded data back to the receiver unit.

Current developments in the area of RFID tagging and tracking systems have generally evolved into two distinct technology fields i.e. near field devices and far field devices the latter generally employing higher frequencies and being operable over longer ranges than the former. Both device types employ some architecture common to both. For example both types of systems employ an interrogator and at least one transponder tag. The interrogator transmits a query signal to the tag and receives data transmitted from the tag. The architecture of the interrogator generally employs a transmitter receiver transceiver and a reader.

The transceiver may include an antenna and an interface with which to transmit and receive signals to and from the tag. The reader provides the interrogation signal and evaluates the received signals to and from the tag. The reader may include a modulator demodulator modem that communicates with the antenna a coder decoder codec and a controller for communicating with a processor that handles application specific functions.

The architecture of each tag generally employs an antenna a rectifier circuit and a state machine for modulating the transmitted data. A logic circuit represents one example of a state machine that sequentially transitions through a series of predetermined output states in conjunction with applying to the tag circuitry a series of pulses such as by a clocking circuit.

Typical RFID tags have a patch antenna a diode detection trigger to initiate the tag response and transmission circuitry to send the responding data back to the interrogator. Near field tags typically employ simpler circuits than far field tags. Transmission circuitry for the near field tag usually includes the state machine and a transistor device the latter being used to change the impedance of the patch antenna.

Most of these near field RFID systems use a technique called back scattering. The interrogator for a backscatter system transmits an unmodulated single frequency continuous wave CW signal that triggers or awakens the transmitter on the tag. In response the tag modulates the reflection of the received CW signal by changing the impedance of the antenna in the RFID tag in accordance with a code supplied by a state machine to prevent collision of data between two or more tags in close proximity.

The RFID tags in a near field RFID system may or may not have a battery to provide power for returning a signal to the interrogator. Tags without a battery are labeled passive while those with a battery are labeled active with simpler tags typically being the former. Passive tags draw power from an electromagnetic field created by the interrogator signal received by the patch antenna. The independent power source for active tags enables longer communication distances independent sensing and monitoring self initiated transmission and higher bandwidth than passive tags at the sacrifice of higher cost and size.

In contrast the tags employed in a far field RFID system have developed around the use of microprocessors and software algorithms. In operation the interrogator sends a modulated radio frequency RF signal to the RFID tag. The microprocessor embedded in the RFID tag interprets the received signal and determines the need for a response signal i.e. determines whether or not a response signal is warranted.

The far field RFID system avoids data collision because the tag will respond to the interrogator only when the tag receives a modulated signal that matches a code stored in the tag and accessed by its microprocessor or state machine. If the received signal matches a predetermined code the tag awakens and transmits the requested data via a radio circuit. The encoding and the transmission operations by the tag may be performed by either a microprocessor or a state machine that performs the carrier modulation. These circuits are fairly intricate and thus expensive due to the use of microprocessors. Because of their power requirements the far field RFID system frequently employs active tags.

What is needed is a low cost far field RFID tagging and tracking system. Desirable characteristics include RFID tagging and tracking system could utilize low cost and or passive RFID tags without encountering data collision. Such systems would be advantageous if the RFID tagging and tracking system can be utilized in the tracking of inventory and assets for a wide range of applications including but not limited to inventory data collection in a warehouse system tracking of mobile assets and security monitoring.

Based on the above and foregoing there presently exists a need in the art for a far field radio frequency identification RFID tagging and tracking system that overcomes the above described deficiencies. The devices and techniques described herein overcome the drawbacks and shortcomings of the presently available technology and thereby fulfill this need in the art.

Various embodiments provide a far field radio frequency identification RFID tag responsive to a plurality of continuous wave CW unmodulated signals selected from frequencies including a predetermined frequency band.

In an exemplary embodiment the RFID tag includes reception and transmission antenna circuits a signal processor and an oscillator. The reception antenna circuit receives the reception signals from the RFID interrogator.

The signal processor determines whether the reception signals correspond to a plurality of tag identification frequencies as a correlation. The signal processor also produces responsive signals in response to the correlation. The oscillator supplies a carrier frequency. The transmission antenna circuit combines the carrier signal with the response signals to produce transmit signals and then dispatches the transmit signals.

Various exemplary embodiments provide for the signal processor to divide the reception signals into constituent frequencies using one of a Goertzel algorithm an optimized Goertzel algorithm and a Chirp Z algorithm.

The method for the RFID tag to respond includes steps for receiving the reception signals by a reception antenna circuit determining whether the reception signals correspond to a plurality of tag identification frequencies as a correlation by a signal processor producing responsive signals by the signal processor in response to the correlation supplying to the responsive signals by an oscillator a carrier signal at a carrier frequency combining the carrier signal with the response signals by a transmission antenna circuit to produce transmit signals and dispatching the transmit signals by the transmission antenna circuit.

The far field radio frequency identification RFID tagging and tracking system according to various exemplary embodiments includes low cost RFID tags capable of responding to queries from an RFID interrogator without producing undesirable data collision. This operational characteristic of the RFID tags stems from the fact that only one of the RFID tags will awaken and respond to a particular fixed frequency trigger signal generated by the RFID interrogator.

The RFID tagging and tracking system advantageously can be utilized in the tracking of inventory and assets for a wide range of applications including but not limited to inventory data collection in a warehouse system tracking of mobile assets e.g. tanks trucks etc. and security monitoring of personnel.

In the far field RFID tagging and tracking system according to various exemplary embodiments the interrogator may contain many complex components i.e. microprocessors or control units for the system. Each RFID tag contains relatively simple logic circuits or a microprocessor utilizing relatively simple routines such as a Goertzel algorithm.

The RFID tagging and tracking system relies on a binary system to prevent data collision between tags in close proximity. More specifically the RFID interrogator unit transmits multiple fixed unmodulated continuous wave CW signals over the coverage area. The specific frequencies transmitted by the RFID interrogator are selected from frequencies obtained by dividing the frequency band of into a number of discreet frequency sub bands. These frequency bands can be selected from several commonly used for RFID systems including regions in the electromagnetic spectrum that correspond to ultrahigh frequency UHF and microwave e.g. Bluetooth IEEE 802.11. Each of the selected frequencies represents a single bit in a multiple bit binary code.

The proposed system is a far field device. The interrogator contains complex components such as microprocessors or control units for the system. is a block diagram of an RFID interrogator employed in a far field RFID tagging and tracking system according to various exemplary embodiments. The RFID interrogator includes a pair of antennas for reception and transmission respectively. The RFID interrogator communicates with the RFID tag through these antennas as described further below.

The transmission antenna submits signals from the interrogator to which the tag corresponding to the transmitted identification responds. The reception antenna provides signals received from the tag to a receiver front end which advantageously includes demodulators peak detection filters etc.

The construction of the receiver front end is well known to one of ordinary skill in the art and will not be described further. A control section receives the signals recovered by the front end .

In various exemplary embodiments the controller may include a controller coupled to a peripheral device . The peripheral device may include in various exemplary embodiments a data storage device a user interface display a master slave and other control function selector

The front end may include demodulator and peak detector filters but is not limited to these components. The front end detects the modulated signals produced from any one of the activated RFID tags with minimal noise interference and provides the extracted information to the control section in an interpretable language i.e. binary code.

The functions available from the control section are not limited to the enumerated functions. The control section provides control signals to switch and band selector having switches through . The switch controls the operation of a multiple frequency generator .

The generator produces multiple discrete frequencies within a predetermined frequency band e.g. the 2.350 GHz to 2.450 GHz microwave frequency band. The frequency band may be selectively applied to the transmission antenna via the switches through and to a frequency summer for summation .

The control section may provide any number of functions e.g. a data storage function a user display function a master slave control function and other such functions desired by the user. The functions provided by the control section may vary depending upon the needs of the user. Moreover the control section may be a stand alone or and integrated computer e.g. a COTS computer.

The switch and its associated control line are optional. This switch may be included in the RFID interrogator to optionally isolate the multiple frequency generator from the control section . The control section and switches through may cooperate to select the transmitted frequencies corresponding to the cycled binary code word of one of the tags. The switches through in the band selector may be transistor switches. A field effect transistor FET represents an example transistor switch.

The multiple frequency generator may provide all the discrete frequencies needed to accomplish the selection task. Moreover any configuration of components that performs these functions falls within the scope of the RFID tagging and tracking system according to various exemplary embodiments.

The system relies on a binary system to prevent data collision between tags in close proximity. The interrogator sends multiple fixed unmodulated CW signals over the coverage area. These frequencies may be selected based on the division of the frequency band of 2.350 GHz through 2.450 GHz into a number of discreet frequency sub bands.

The control section within the RFID interrogator cycles a binary code that represents a unique identifier for a selected tag. The RFID interrogator then transmits this code in the form of selected CW unmodulated frequency signals during a tag interrogation stage.

The multiple frequency generator produces N discrete frequencies as shown in . Concurrently the switches through may select discrete frequencies e.g. f f and fshown in . These selected frequencies may be combined by the summer and transmitted by the transmission antenna as a binary sequence shown in .

The tag remains dormant for an invalid i.e. non corresponding binary sequence as shown in . In contrast the tag responds to a valid binary sequence that corresponds to the tag s identification the signal from which may be received by the reception antenna .

The functional elements described therein include items available as COTS components such as an electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM a synchronized dynamic random access memory SDRAM and a direct memory access DMA . Additionally various functions may be performed by COTS components that represent available configurations such as a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a complex programmable logic device CPLD and an arithmetic logic unit ALU .

The tag in includes a reception antenna that receives a microwave signal e.g. at 2.41 GHz through 2.48 GHz from the interrogator . The antenna forwards the received signal to a first impedance matching circuit before being successively submitted through a first microwave bandpass filter a first low noise amplifier a second microwave bandpass filter a second low noise amplifier a first buffer and an A D converter where the signals are converted. The antenna and associated impedance matching circuit may be represented as a reception antenna circuit .

Each of the bandpass filters can be a Surface Acoustic Wave SAW anti aliasing filter. The SAW filter may preferably have a center frequency of approximately 2.4375 GHz and 3 dB points at 2.41 GHz and 2.46 GHz. SAW filters can be implemented with relatively steep roll offs and low loss. Alternatively the bandpass filters can be designed using widely available COTS components.

The converted digital signals are received in a digital signal processor DSP . The bypass filters may cover larger bandwidths than typical notch filters because the DSP need only limit bandwidth to widest usable frequency using algorithms to perform more refined filtering.

The DSP may carry an internal clock such as a 555 timer circuit or a phase lock loop. Alternatively the DSP may employ a pulsed narrow band frequency such as 2.440 GHz from the RFID interrogator applied to a narrow band filter bank not shown . A driver voltage can be applied to send signals from the DSP and be generated by any known voltage source suitable for this application.

The DSP communicates with memory components which may be integral to the DSP or represent peripheral devices. Such memory components include e.g. an EEPROM an SDRAM and a DMA for storing in memory. The tag may be connected to a separate power source to provide electrical power to the DSP . Alternatively a small power source may reside within the tag .

The processed signals from the DSP can be processed by a finite impulse response FIR compensation filter provided by the DSP . The digital signals are forwarded to a digital to analog D A converter . The converted analog signals are forwarded to a reconstruction filter . The FIR filter provides digital implementation to construct a digital signal for the D A converter to process with reconstruction used to attenuate signals out of the band.

The FIR filter lacks feedback so that the output returns to zero after the number of samples reaches the number of coefficients. In contrast an infinite impulse response IIR filter includes feedback yielding non zero values after input of an initial impulse. The IIR filter may require less memory but may be more susceptible to noise than the FIR filter.

The reconstruction filter submits the analog signals to a second buffer to be sequenced by a sample and hold S H circuit . The S H circuit creates a spread spectrum signal that can be filtered for applications involving direct signal conversion. The sequenced response signals are then forwarded to a driver amplifier and passed through a UHF bandpass filter and a balancing circuit .

A crystal oscillator passes a UHF carrier signal e.g. 921 MHz to a carrier amplifier . A second impedance matching circuit receives the filtered response signal from the balancing circuit and the amplified carrier signal from the amplifier to produce a combined signal.

The impedance matching circuits may each include an inductor capacitor LC network and an amplifier. A transmission antenna transmits the combined signal to the interrogator . The transmission antenna and associated impedance matching circuit may be represented as a transmission antenna circuit . As an alternative to the antenna pair a single antenna operable over wider frequency ranges than for the separate functions could serve to receive and transmit signals.

A mixer receives the sequenced response signals from the driver amplifier and the carrier signal from the oscillator . The mixer forwards the mixed signal to an impedance matching circuit via a transmission amplifier . The transmission antenna passes the resulting signal from the circuit to the interrogator . The antenna and associated impedance matching circuit may be represented as a transmission antenna circuit .

The A D converter may be capable of operating at 150 MSPS to ensure proper Nyquist sampling rates for the CW signals in the described embodiment. Typically higher bit widths are preferred under any circumstance to improve the corresponding signal to noise ratio SNR . A 16 bit A D converter is capable of achieving an SNR that exceeds 90 dB while an 8 bit A D is capable of approximately 42 dB. An example would be an Analog Devices AD9786 16 bit A D converter.

An example DSP would be the Analog Devices ADSP TS201S TigerSHARC processor. The TigerSHARC has embedded RAM ROM ALU an FPGA clock and a 14 channel DMA controller allowing for efficient signal data storage and retrieval. The DSP may include the logic circuit and the state machine for the tag and may be designed from widely available discreet components. Preferably both the logic gate circuit and the state machine can be formed using a single programmable logic device. The logic circuits can be programmed onto a single CPLD or an FPGA such as those supplied by Xilinx. When the RFID tag design employs a CPLD or an FPGA the tag can be easily reprogrammed and reconfigured by the user thousands of times.

The signals pass through the microwave filters the amplifiers the A D converter and the DSP . The correct logic sequence triggers the tag to respond by transmitting tag information by modulated carrier between the UHF frequencies of 902 MHz and 928 MHz. Other frequency bands may be used as frequency allocation for an area permits. A clocked state machine within the tag which may be implemented using the DSP may perform the modulation of the data carrier.

The RFID tag may receive microwave signals from the interrogator based on a number of unique identifier codes. That number corresponds to the number of bands into which the allocated frequency range is divided. If the number of divisions is N the number of unique binary identifiers is one less than the quantity two raised to the power N i.e. 2 1.

For example if the allocated frequency is divided into four sub bands the number of unique identifiers is 2 1 15. For division into eight sub bands the number of unique identifiers is 2 1 255. If there are 15 sub bands the number of unique identifiers climbs to 2 1 32 767.

As an operating example the microwave frequency band of 2.350 GHz through 2.450 GHz is divided into eight discreet frequency bands starting at 2.355 GHz and ending at 2.425 GHz i.e. frequencies fthrough f. The lowest frequency in an exemplary case corresponds to the least significant bit LSB of the binary logic code. The number N of frequencies produced by the frequency interrogator s generator is generally constrained by the selectively of the bandpass filters of RFID tags .

The following example illustrated in describes two exemplary RFID tags and each with a unique logic code. The first tag has a logic code of 00101001 while the second tag has a logic code of 10001101. Neither tag will respond to a query for a signal transmitted by the RFID interrogator composed of for example f f f and f. In contrast the second tag responds to a transmitted signal that includes frequencies f f f and f while the first tag remains dormant. The first tag responds to a transmitted signal that includes f f and f while the second tag remains dormant.

The RFID tagging and tracking system when equipped with a directional receive antenna e.g. a directional reception antenna may be used to locate the equipment or person supporting a particular tag . When the system is equipped with three or more receiving antennas the RFID interrogator can resolve the location of any individual tag in two dimensional 2D space. When the system is equipped with four antennas the RFID interrogator can resolve the location of any individual tag in three dimensional 3D space. Multiple front ends would permit real time or near real time determination of a tag s location while multiple antennas selectively coupled to a single front end would permit determination of the tag s position by a multi step localization process.

Determination of a tag s location would also be possible by operating a single RFID interrogator from multiple locations or from a mobile platform e.g. from a truck or airplane to obtain the three or four bearing lines required to resolve the tag s location in 2D or 3D space respectively.

Each of the selected frequencies represents a single bit in a multiple bit binary code. A control unit within the interrogator cycles a binary code that represents a unique identifier for a tag. This binary code is then transmitted by the interrogator in the form of selected CW unmodulated frequency signals during the tag interrogation stage. The tag can utilize a single bandpass filter or a series of narrow bandpass filters tuned between the microwave frequencies of 2.350 GHz and 2.450 GHz depending on the capabilities of the DSP . Filters can be designed using widely available commercial off the shelf COTS components.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 666 823 relied on discrete logic components to determine the CW signals and thus the binary identifier being generated by the interrogator. The modified system will rely on the DSP unit to identify the generated signals through the use of a modified discrete Fourier transform DFT known as an optimized Goertzel algorithm.

The DFT is a method whereby a computer can determine the frequency and phase components of an energy signal. A DFT evaluates a set number of samples over the sampling period. The number of data samples in turn determines the bin width of the analyzed signals. By performing a DFT on the sample data the frequency components emerge as elevated energy signals centered in a particular bin. A similar analysis can be performed to determine signal phase.

The Goertzel algorithm employs a selected block size L that controls the frequency resolution or bin width. As an example for sampling rate r 8 kHz and a block size L 100 samples the corresponding bin width is r L 80 Hz. The block size L is analogous to the number of points in a fast Fourier transform FFT . Fortunately the block size L for the Goertzel algorithm unlike in the FFT need not be a power of two which provides flexibility in adjusting the bin width.

The Goertzel algorithm computes a signal magnitude using a bin address constant k based on a target frequency f the sample rate rand the sample block size L from the relation k int 0.5 Lf r where the function int truncates the fractional portion of the bracketed value to a rounded integer value.

For example if f 941 Hz r 8 kHz and L 205 samples then k 24. The Goertzel algorithm uses the constant k to determine a phase angle from which to calculate a magnitude coefficient c. The phase angle is 2 k L and the coefficient is c 2 cos .

The Goertzel algorithm determines the sample signal magnitude by a triple set of state variables Q Qand Q. The latter two variables are initialized to zero at the beginning of each block of samples and represent the value of Qlast time and Qtwo times ago respectively. For each successive sample S within the block the Goertzel algorithm sequentially determines first Q c Q Q S second Q Q and third Q Q.

The square of the signal magnitude can be determined by the relation Z Q Q c QQ. The corresponding frequency of the signal can be determined from the magnitude by a threshold comparison. Optionally the original Goertzel algorithm enables the phase to be determined from the real X and imaginary Y portions of the state variables to be determined as X Q Qcos and Y Qsin with Z X Y.

Goertzel algorithms are employed widely in the telecommunication industry to identify dual tone multi frequency DTMF audio signals such as Touch Tone by AT T. The Goertzel algorithm then outputs the constant k value to a memory location. Another alternative to the DFT and the Goertzel algorithm can be found in the Chirp Z transform CZT which may be used for odd length sequences.

Decoding a DTMF signal involves extracting the two tones in the signal and determining from their value the intended DTMF digit. Tone detection is often done in analog circuits by detecting and counting zero crossings of the input signal. In digital circuits tone detection is easier to accomplish by mathematically transforming the input time domain signal into its frequency domain equivalent by means of the Fourier transform or through use of tone specific digital filters.

The general approach for the Goertzel algorithm for DTMF tone detection takes the Fourier transform of the observed signal and search for energy at the frequencies of interest because the Goertzel algorithm is implemented by a Discrete Fourier Transform DFT . The analysis frame must be long enough to resolve the DTMF frequencies but short enough to detect the minimum length tone. A 12.75 ms frame at a sampling rate of 8 kHz represent reasonable quantities.

The Goertzel algorithm represents a method for calculating any single coefficient of a DFT. The Goertzel algorithm may be considered a second order IIR filter for each DFT coefficient. In calculating the DFT the Goertzel algorithm may be preferred over a fast Fourier transform FFT algorithm. There are two reasons for this.

First in order to obtain the required frequency resolution at an 8 kHz sampling rate a 256 point FFT would be required. Because the algorithm for tone detection requires knowledge of the energy at only 16 frequencies the Goertzel algorithm is more efficient to execute for these frequencies. Second the Goertzel algorithm is recursive eliminating the need to store 256 samples for the FFT for each DTMF detector. This may reduce both time and data memory in the simulation and the real time applications. In a further advantage of the DSP based implementation the signal resolution over a given bandwidth can be much higher than the implementation using the discrete components.

The Goertzel algorithm is a filter bank implementation that directly calculates one DFT coefficient. Goertzel being order N is not considered a Fast Fourier Transform FFT which is order N log N where N is the number of subdivided frequency bands. The Goertzel algorithm is a second order IIR filter that extracts the energy present at a specific frequency.

The Goertzel algorithm is more efficient than an FFT when log N or fewer coefficients of the DFT are needed. The Goertzel algorithm is not restricted to allowable sample lengths in base 2 thereby providing an advantage over a conventional DFT. Moreover the Goertzel algorithm also requires less memory overhead thereby allowing faster calculation times.

Calculating the DFT at eight frequencies is as efficient in execution time as finding a 256 point FFT. Finding the DFT for sixteen frequencies the eight DTMF tones and their second harmonics represents a more complicated process than finding the FFT. However the filter bank implementation has the tremendous advantage of processing the input data as they arrive. In contrast the FFT has to wait until the entire sample window has arrived. Therefore the Goertzel algorithm significantly reduces the data memory required as well as the time required to collect the L samples.

The Goertzel algorithm can be modified to provide only the frequency components of an energy signal and can thus be made to perform the computation extremely efficiently. The unnecessary phase calculation can be eliminated in an optimized version of the Goertzel algorithm. Signal resolution can be determined by the number of sample points analyzed and the number of frequency bins to be identified.

The DSP may determine the filter bank transfer function such as by calculation of the described relations. The transfer function for the filter is H Z 1 W Z 1 2 cos 2 k L Z 1 Z where W exp j2 L Z is the input signal and L is the length of the observation window for the DFT based on the L samples. Initially the state variables of the filter are set to zero. Then the filter function is executed L times.

The resulting output y L is the kcoefficient of a length L DFT. Notice that the filter is implemented as a direct form second order section. The recursive part of the filter is on the left hand side of the delay elements and the nonrecursive part is on the right. Only the output at sample time L is required so that only the nonrecursive part of the filter need be computed after the last iteration of the recursive part. Additionally only the square of the magnitude of the DFT coefficient is needed yielding a further simplification.

The nonrecursive calculation of the DFT coefficient is expressed as y L s L Ws L 1 where s L and s L 1 represent the value of the state variables at times L and L 1. The absolute square relation is expressed as y L s L 2 cos 2 k L s L s L 1 s L 1 . Thus the value 2 cos 2 k L is stored for each coefficient to be evaluated.

The pseudo code that employs the optimized Goertzel algorithm for a single frequency provided below in C language provides an illustrating example. This program is intended only as a guide for establishing processor appropriate code and takes a fixed length array of L data samples starting from a memory location and determines a value result at a prescribed frequency location described by the bin address constant k and a sample S. The program then outputs the k value to a memory address.

A simple modification to the code in the form of an iterated subroutine will result in the appropriate code for any desired number of frequency bin identifiers. Other DFT codes and algorithms may be employed for this type of data analysis but these lack the speed and efficiency available with a Goertzel routine or alternatively the CZT routine. Specifically the CZT calculates the Z transform on a set of points as the convolution of sampled input. Two FFTs and one inverse FFT can be used to calculate the CZT.

The RFID system as exemplified in the above described embodiments provides the advantage of a far field operation combined with an anti collision system. This anti collision may be implemented by the characteristics of the CW interrogator signal generated. In contrast to being problematic for conventional systems multi path signal interception actually benefits the current proposed system.

For the multi path signal interception the digital sampling relies not on the highest frequency to be sampled a common misunderstanding of the Nyquist criteria but on the signal bandwidth. This technique is known as signal under sampling. The consequently fewer parts for the exemplified systems translate into generally lower failure rates and to lower acquisition costs.

Because the proposed RFID system uses a high speed A D converter and processes using a DSP intermediary mixer components and intermediate frequency IF filters are not required. Such devices can introduce signal noise if carelessly implemented.

A device for summing two or more electrical signal includes in general audio usage components to process and sum the outputs of two or more microphones or line level sources. Modulation may superimpose a control signal to an electronic or optical signal carrier. In electronic synthesis one example involves a sine wave output of a low frequency oscillator LFO being added to a pitched note that produces vibration.

Another form of synthesis uses the principle of frequency modulation FM to generate an entire range of sounds by modulating the frequency of an audible frequency with the frequency of another signal. Amplitude modulation AM and FM radio both employ modulation to broadcast their signals.

Because the proposed system makes use of high speed digital signal processing components and techniques the resolution of the identifying CW signals can be optimized based on the DSP capabilities. This optimization has the advantage of allowing a greater number of tag identifiers than the earlier RFID conception. The tag circuit can be developed from relatively low cost COTS components available from a wide selection of vendors such as Analog Devices Inc. and Texas Instruments Inc.

The RFID tag for this example receives a compound CW signal with microwave frequency components between 2.41 GHz and 2.46 GHz that gives a useable bandwidth of 50 MHz. The tag may transmit a modulated UHF carrier signal between the frequencies of 902 MHz and 928 MHz. Modulation for the example may be implemented using the balancing circuit on the transmission antenna circuit .

For example the interrogator may generate eight separate microwave frequency signals at 2.420 2.425 2.430 2.435 2.440 2.445 2.450 and 2.455 GHz. The interrogator receives the modulated signal from the RFID transponder. The interrogator may include any number of common signal transmitter components and need only be capable of transmitting and rotating through the CW signals and receiving amplitude modulated AM signals at the designated frequencies.

A data sample width L of 500 data points provides a frequency bin width of 100 kHz. Other values can be used and this is just a notional representation. Additionally the input signal could be broken into smaller sub bands for simultaneous processing based on the capabilities of the DSP used.

The interrogator broadcasts a compound microwave signal composed for example of 2.42 GHz 2.43 GHz 2.44 GHz and 2.45 GHz CW signals. These frequencies correspond to the exemplary binary identifier of 01010101. All active RFID tags in monitoring mode gather the CW signal data to analyze.

At the RFID tags the signals pass through the antenna circuit tuned for 2.41 GHz to 2.46 GHz. The signals pass through the anti aliasing filter and are amplified by the low noise amplifiers . The signals are then sampled by the A D converter . The sampling provides a direct signal down conversion of the signal for the DSP which routes the data from the A D converter directly to the on board RAM .

The modified Goertzel algorithm is retrieved from ROM and the data are processed to determine which CW signal frequencies are present. This can be done via a single routine or through an indexed subroutine using the Goertzel algorithm. The bin values are determined and compared to corresponding identifier values stored in the ROM . This comparison can be performed through a direct threshold comparison or through a signal convolution.

Upon determining that the identifier code stored in ROM matches the decoded CW signal the tag will activate the 920 MHz crystal oscillator . Concurrently the tag balances and unbalances the antenna circuit through the balancing circuit to modulate a return data signal. Upon sending the signal the RFID tag will deactivate the oscillator and continue to monitor the interrogator signals.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

