---

title: System and method generating voice sites
abstract: A system and method for generating and providing a voice-site on a linked network of voice-sites over a network. A voice call is received from a subscriber at the first voice site, the first voice site hosted on a server and the subscriber is associated with the first voice site. The subscriber is configured to create and personalize a second voice site starting from the first voice site by specifying personal preferences of the subscriber and available components on the server, and the second voice site created by the subscriber comprises a list of services offered by the subscriber, and then host the second voice site on the server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07933389&OS=07933389&RS=07933389
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07933389
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20061219
---
This invention generally relates to a method and system for creating and hosting voice sites on servers over a network preferably a voice server and over a telecommunication network.

The World Wide Web WWW operates over the Internet infrastructure enabling services such as email web browsing online shopping and the like. The Internet primarily provides data services to users for example the ability to create and personalize a website webpage online shopping accessing web services and the like. The Internet has also been used to provide voice related services and has become a parallel telecommunications network providing voice communication services including voice over Internet protocol VoIP voice extended markup language VoiceXML etc. A number of Internet web sites provide a voice interface by playing audio files and accepting audio inputs.

In typical telecommunication based networks service providers offer basic data services such as short message service SMS email sports updates news and the like. A disadvantage of the current telecommunication service is the limitation of users access to the data services as users do not have the control or ability to provide such applications. Moreover the information available on the Internet is available to people who can access the Internet through digital infrastructure. A further disadvantage of the system is that due to the absence of voice and digital information to the users there is a need for an infrastructure that would enable a user for example a telephone user to provide and control data services to other telephone users.

Although various user interfaces have been developed to enable users to access the content over the Internet through server systems many such systems experience significant drawbacks. All of these systems require that the user connect via a computer system to the server system to initiate reports and view the contents of the reports a time consuming way of obtaining necessary information

Without a way to improve a method and system for creating and hosting voice sites the promise of this technology may never be fully achieved

A first aspect of the invention provides a method for receiving a voice call from a subscriber to a first voice site on a server preferably a voice server over a network. The first voice site is hosted on the server and is associated with the subscriber. The first voice site is configured so that the subscriber is able to create and personalize a second voice site starting from the first voice site by specifying personal preferences of the subscriber and by using the components available on the server. The second voice site thus created by the subscriber contains a list of various services that are offered by the subscriber. After creation of the second voice sites the voice sites are hosted on the server.

In a further embodiment a caller who is different from the subscriber can place a call into another voice site. The server is arranged to identify the caller. The server interacts with the caller preferably via a interactive voice response module and directs the voice call to an appropriate voice site of the subscriber. Preferably the interaction is done dynamically in real time. Optionally the caller can directly place a voice call to the voice site of the subscriber. If the services are identified then the caller is provided with the appropriate response which contains the services requested by at the subscribers voice site.

A second aspect of this invention provides a system for generating voice sites. A receiving means is configured to receive a voice call from a subscriber at a first voice site the first voice site associated with the subscriber. After the voice call is received from the subscriber a processing means is configured to enable the subscriber to create and personalize a second voice site starting from the first voice site by specifying personal preferences of the subscriber and by using the available components on the server and the second voice site created by the subscriber comprises a list of services offered by the subscriber and the system further contains a means for hosting the second voice site on the server.

In a further embodiment the receiving means is further configured to receive a voice call from a caller at the server wherein the voice call from the caller is directed to the subscriber and configured to identify the caller. After receiving the voice call from the caller the processing means configured to direct the voice call received from the caller to an appropriate voice site of the subscriber hosted on the server by dynamically interacting with the caller in real time. The processing means is further configured to provide the caller with an appropriate response the response comprising services available at the subscriber s voice site.

A third aspect of this invention provides a signal bearing medium comprising a voice call from a subscriber embodied in a carrier wave is received at a first voice site on a server and processed by a processing means enabling the subscriber to create and personalize a second voice site starting from the first voice site by specifying personal preferences of the subscriber and using the available components on the server wherein the second voice site comprises a list of services offered by the subscriber and host the second voice site on the server.

In yet a further embodiment this invention provides a signal bearing medium comprising a voice call from a caller embodied in a carrier wave is received at a voice site on a server wherein the voice call from the caller is processed by a processing means configured to identify the caller and direct the voice call received from the caller to an appropriate voice site of a subscriber hosted on the server by dynamically interacting with the caller in real time and to provide the caller with an appropriate response the response comprising services available at the subscribers voice site.

These and other aspects advantages and salient features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description the accompanying drawings and the appended claims.

The voice sites are configurable and customizable by Interactive Voice Response IVR module associated with the SP . The IVR and data services available at the SP are shared and coupled with the ease of creating a further voice sites and customizing it to personal individual preferences. The IVR and data services hosted by the SP are similar to the manner in which websites and Internet servers are hosted by a typical Internet Service Providers ISP . further illustrates that the subscribers as well as the callers who is different from the subscriber are capable of communicating with the SP via the network. It should be apparent to a person skilled in the art that the subscriber and the caller may reside on different networks and can communicate using a suitable protocol.

When a caller calls a subscriber belonging to one of the service provider or the service provider receives the call first. The voice call is analyzed and the destination of the called party is determined. The call is transferred to the determined service provider via the network. The caller is then configured to interact with the voice site of the called party in this case the subscriber s voice site and depending upon the interaction with the voice site the voice call may be transferred to the called party subscriber .

The processing means enables a subscriber to create and personalize voice site and or create new voice sites and link the already available voice site with the newly created voice site. The processing means allows creation of personalized voice site through at least one of a voice interface and a web interface. Voice site comprises content for a caller that the subscriber is capable of offering service to. The content may for example include a voice message and or a text message. In a further embodiment personalization of the voice site to a caller includes developing a different answer for a different caller. The voice site is linked to other voice sites created by other subscribers to build a linked network of voice sites on the network.

Voice site and or the processing means comprise one or more IVR modules and each module may be configured to a particular phone number. It should be apparent to a person skilled in the art that a common IVR module may be deployed for a plurality of phone numbers on the voice site and or the processing means. The IVR module may be created configured using a design or technology known in the art. In one embodiment the IVR module is configured to provide a menu options that act as one or more mini portals to the products services that are offered by the subscriber.

The voice site hosting means can comprises the voice browser that presents voice site using presentation and user interface components to the subscriber and or the caller. In an embodiment the voice site hosting means hosts all the voice sites of all the subscribers of a service provider on a network. The hosting of the voice sites includes for example associating the voice site to the subscriber s telephone number. Further the voice site hosting means is also configured to maintain a registry of all caller numbers all callee numbers and the corresponding voice application VXML to be executed for a particular caller and or callee number as required. Further the voice site hosting means contains information related to the voice sites. The information includes without limitation subscribers names products or services offered by the subscribers and the like. The voice site hosting means provides a number of applications to be implemented including text based search capability on the voice sites for example a search query to be provided in voice or a search result to be displayed in voice.

In one embodiment the processing means is configured to pre filters voice calls based on the callers number voice and transfers the voice call to the correct voice site and may be further configured to transfer forward the voice calls and meter them accordingly.

In accordance with the present invention a voice call made by the caller using a voice enabled calling device terminates at voice site hosting engine instead of terminating at the handset of the subscriber. The processing means forwards the call to the voice site hosting means . Each voice call from a caller is mapped onto an IVR module in the subscriber s voice site. In one embodiment the caller may have an exclusive IVR module or may share a single IVR module. Further the voice site hosting means is configured to select an appropriate response to the voice call based on the identity of the caller and to provide for a conversation between the caller and voice site . Based on the content of the conversation between the caller and the IVR module the voice site hosting means terminates the voice call or routes the voice call either to the subscriber s handset or to a voice mail box or to the IVR module of another caller. The IVR module of another caller may belong to voice site hosting means or to a voice site hosting means based in another network belonging to another service provider.

As a result of the conversation between caller and the IVR module the voice site hosting means may invoke data services residing either in the telecommunication networks or in the Information Technology IT networks. The interaction protocols used in the former case would be telecommunication specific and include communication protocols such as Session Initiation Protocol SIP while the interaction with services in the IT world may be done using service oriented architecture SOA Application Programming Interfaces APIs such as Web Services. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention when the voice call is forwarded to the IVR module of the caller the voice site hosting means may be configured to provide a call summary to the subscriber after the voice call is terminated.

In one embodiment of the present invention the voice site hosting means in association with the processing means is configured to forward the voice call received at the receiving means to the subscriber s handset based upon the interaction of the caller with subscriber s voice site . In a further embodiment if the voice site is not present the voice site hosting means in association with the processing means is configured to forward the voice call to the subscriber s handset. Some examples of voice enabled calling devices without limitation include a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN phone a mobile handset a Personal Digital Assistant PDA and a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP phone.

RDCs are coupled to personalized processing means and the voice site hosting means and are a set of pre existing configurable available components voice User Interface UI components and presentation components that are used to create generate the voice site thereby avoiding the need to develop the entire UI. Voice site can be built speedily by using existing RDCs instead of creating the voice dialogs of the IVR module from scratch. Thus RDCs are selected and configured while creating voice site . However RDCs included in voice site are executed at the voice site hosting means and the processing means . RDC registry is a database that maintains a list of all available RDCs along with their descriptions at personalized voice site creator .

In a further embodiment voice site hosting means and the processing means is coupled to services registry that maintains a registry of services offered by various subscribers of at least one service provider. The services includes without limitation maps and directory services banking services stocks sports updates electronic stores location tracking services and online ticketing. In a further embodiment while a subscriber creates a voice site using personalized processing means the subscriber may refer to services registry to select a service which the subscriber may wish to hyper voice link to its voice site.

In a further embodiment voice site hosting means and the processing means are coupled to service creation environment that provides a mechanism for creating new services on voice site from existing components in a semi automatic way. It is an alternative to manually creating new services that are not currently available. Once a subscriber creates a new service it is stored in services registry .

The voice browser interacts with speech server which provides speech recognition and synthesis required to render and capture voice output input during the conversation between the caller and the IVR module corresponding to the caller in the subscriber s voice site.

In a further embodiment the system comprises user specific database coupled to voice site hosting engine that stores without limitation caller numbers callee numbers and the corresponding voice application VXML to be executed. User specific database may further store alarms calendars favorites and the like thereby pushing handset services to the telecommunication network and enabling device independent self services. The IVR module may be customized for self use of the above mentioned services.

In a further embodiment the voice site hosting means and the processing means is coupled to application database that stores without limitation application details of the subscribers for forwarding a call. The application details include without limitation time duration during which a subscriber wishes to receive a voice call on his handset time duration during which a subscriber wishes to receive a voice call on his IVR module voice message to be delivered to a caller and the like. Based upon the application details the voice call is forwarded to one of a voice site for example the IVR module and a phone number. An advantage being that multiple subscribers can now share a single handset. For example a subscriber may set a time slot during which he would possess the handset for receiving calls while at other times he might enable his voice site to receive the calls. Thus multiple subscribers with different phone numbers may share the handset for pre defined time durations. The time slot may be pre defined or may be activated deactivated manually or without any human intervention.

In a further embodiment the voice site hosting means and the procession means is coupled to detection module that identifies and authenticates a caller and filters or forwards the call to a particular IVR module or to the subscriber based upon the caller. The authentication comprises at least one of Personal Identification Number PIN verification speaker identification and caller id verification. For example a personal call or a business call may lead to a PIN code entry followed by either a personalized greeting message based on at least one of caller id time and speaker recognition or detailed messages.

In a further embodiment the system comprises services interface that enables services including but not limited to call forwarding voice mailbox location tracking SMS service stock sports rich presence information banking services data services and maps and directory facility that can be utilized by a voice site hosted on voice site hosting engine . The location tracking service enables geographical location of a subscriber i.e. a callee to be tracked. The Short Message Service SMS service includes a message forwarding facility a message storage facility and a message searching facility. Other data services may include without limitation driving directions calendar schedule or any other information that the subscriber has configured to be played to the caller. Other information may include without limitation a personalized tune song video clip and commentary to be played either when the caller is on call waiting or otherwise.

Data services also include credit card authorization online shopping i.e. a phone store e.g. bookstore grocery and the like using item codes quantity etc. and a phone business realization. With each call and confirmation number the voice site may play the current status and play options for further action. Also the IVR module may be configured or customized manually or programmatically with the help of a human administrator for Small to Medium Businesses SMBs and Small Office Home Office SOHO users since their IVR options might be quite complex and extensive in nature.

In a further embodiment a generic IVR module may deal with unknown numbers and telemarketers. Enabling such an IVR module allows WWTW to facilitate reducing of spam calls with voicemail online voice message searching filtering for new numbers.

In a further embodiment with support from device manufacturers some emergency services can be provided. For instance a special option for example PIN code protected for emergency calls may override device settings such as vibrator mode call forwarding and call waiting supported by the subscriber s handset and transfer the voice call directly to the subscriber

Level 1 A menu based IVR module asks for prompts and choices from a subscriber who wishes to create a voice site. A voice extended markup language VXML based presentation layer generates target VXML through the backend Java logic. The subscriber uses predefined structures for developing the menu based IVR module which is analogous to developing a HTML page using text with radio buttons.

Level 2 A voice site is developed using pre built RDCs . Further the voice site comprises the developed menu based IVR module. A presentation layer links the voice site with RDC registry while the backend provides implementation to select from RDC registry . Further the voice site comprises a mechanism to configure RDCs through voice input. Examples of such mechanism include configuration of a date RDC. In accordance with one example to configure a date RDC to be used as a date of travel for a railways reservation site a date for example two months from today s date is set beyond which ticket reservation is not permissible. In accordance with another example to configure a date RDC to be used as the expiry date in a credit card a date is set beyond which the cards will not be issued. Yet another example includes configuration of select1 RDC. The select1 RDC is a UI component that provides a UI to the user to select 1 option from a given list. The list can be configured to be for example a set of trains for a railway web site or a set of credit card types such as diners master visa.

It may be seen from the description of the embodiment in that the present invention results in increased revenue to telecommunication service providers as each call translates into a charged call since the call is picked up by the IVR module. Further the telecommunication service providers may accompany hosting charges for personalized or generic voice site hosting. Also each service offered by WWTW may attract different charging.

In a further embodiment of the current invention the system stores and indexes meta content about the various voice sites hosted on different networks. Along with storage the system also provides a search facility that enables subscribers and callers to search through this information for various purposes. Thus information about the different types of voice sites can be accessed by searching through an interface. This can be thought of as similar to a web search through popular search sites such as google yahoo etc.

In one embodiment of the present invention the voice site may forward the call to the subscriber because for example of the absence of required information or as a result of the voice site interaction with the caller at step . The call is terminated at step .

In a further embodiment as illustrated in a caller initiates a call directed to a subscriber at step . The receiving means and the voice site hosting means receives the call. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the IVR module of the voice site may provide a response to the caller at step . The voice response is received by the caller and a voice site interaction is established between the caller and the voice site at step . For example for hosting business on a phone the IVR modules may provide a complete list of items on sale payment and delivery mechanisms. Further IVR options may allow the caller to place an order and pay for any purchases done. In accordance with another example the present invention may be used to provide matrimonial dating service by connecting a potential match to the IVR module and allowing voice messages to be exchanged on offline mode playing out individual preferences etc. In accordance with yet another example the IVR modules may be employed by a grocery store with or without a retail outlet to take orders on phone and additionally provide links to other nearby stores branches for items not locally available. In accordance with yet another example the IVR modules may be employed in voice based coaching classes lectures. Once the interaction between the caller and the voice site ends the call is terminated at step . A call summary of the interaction is sent to the subscriber at step .

In a further embodiment the voice site may forward the call to the subscriber because for example of the absence of required information or as a result of the voice site interaction with the caller at step . The call is terminated at step .

The present invention further facilitates a number of innovative applications to a telephone user and enables the telephone user to have a web presence in the telecommunication world. Further the present invention provides new business models and new sources of revenue to the telecommunication service providers. Also the present invention leads to new levels of personalization of individual telephones.

The caller browses through the list of the products during the voice interaction with the subscriber s voice site. Alternatively the processing means and the IVR module enables a caller to select a product from the subscriber s voice site at step . In various embodiments the caller may select the product either by speaking or keying in the product name or the product code. The caller may then order the selected product through the IVR menu options and select a payment mode. The payment details including credit card debit account details and delivery address may either be pulled from the caller s profile maintained in the applications database or the caller may specify them through the IVR module.

In a further embodiment links of additional voice sites relating to the product are provided if the product is not available on the voice site at step . Further the voice site hosting means maintains profiles of at least one caller. The method ends at step .

By hosting the voice site the services are advertised on the voice site of the subscriber to whoever calls the subscriber s number and visits that voice site. The advertising includes for example voice playback of the service when a caller visits the voice site.

The caller browses through the list of the services during the voice interaction with the service provider s voice site. The caller to select a service from the service provider s voice site at step . In various embodiments the caller may select the service either by speaking or keying in the service name or the service code. Optionally at step the caller may book an appointment with the service provider. However if the service is not available on the voice site optionally the voice site may provide links of additional voice sites relating to the service. The method ends at step .

Based upon the caller identification the voice site hosting means and the processing means either directs the call to a generic IVR module for unknown callers or to specific IVR modules for instance an IVR module for subscriber s spouse one module each for her close friends one for marketing calls etc. at step . The method ends at step . In a further embodiment the method enables searching of content in the IVR menu options or voice sites for fast and efficient querying. This search could be performed across multiple service providers.

While typical embodiments have been set forth for the purpose of illustration the foregoing description should not be deemed to be a limitation on the scope of the present invention. Accordingly various modifications adaptations and alternatives may occur to one skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention.

